72	God's Voice in the Stars

written in bright letters of light. The prophetic truth signified by Capricornus is right at the heart of the gospel, but who would guess it by seeing a picture of a goat with a fish's tail? All the ancient zodiacs connect the goat and the fish. Added to this is the fact that the goat is dying, with bowed head and folded leg, while the fish tail is living and vigorous. Unless there is some significance to this strange combination, we might imagine that its inventor was having a bad dream. But when the true significance is understood we can see the wisdom of God in the prophetic revelation of the gospel to the ancients.
The goat was a sacrificial animal and was used extensively in the sin offering (Leviticus 9:1-3). It was used in connection with atonement made for the Israelites and particularly on the great Day of Atonement (Leviticus 16:1-34). It is in this very connection that the goat is presented in the zodiac. The meanings of the ancient names make this clear. The Hebrews called the sign of Capricornus by the name Gedi, which means The Kid or Cut Off. One of the prominent stars has the Arabic form of the same name, Al Gedi, with the same meaning. Another star is called Daneb Al Gedi, which means The Sacrifice Comes, while the star Dabih has the meaning The Sacrifice Slain.
All these meanings are in perfect accord with Biblical truth concerning Christ the atoning Sacrifice, taking the sinner's place and bearing the punishment for sin. The goat of the sin offering was "to bear the iniquity of the congregation, to make atonement for them before the LORD" (Leviticus 10:16-17). In the same way as the goat of the sin offering typifies Christ dying as the Sin-bearer, Capricornus, the dying goat of the heavenly signs, speaks of Christ dying on the cross for sinful man.
Note that from the dying goat comes a living fish,
The Sacrifice (Capricornus)	73

which typifies the multitudes of the redeemed who have been given life as a result of the sacrifice of Christ. It is true that the fish is not a primary Biblical symbol, but it most certainly became a primary Christian symbol. In Christian tradition as well as in art and literature, the Greek letters comprising the word for fish (ichthus) were often used as an acrostic mean ing Jesus Christ, God's Son, our Saviour. However, it is not known whether the symbol preceded the acrostic or vice versa. There are some secondary indications as to the Biblical use of fish. The Lord Jesus called the early disciples to be "fishers of men" (Matthew 4:19). The symbol was also used of Israel: "I will send for many fishers . . . and they shall fish them" (Jeremiah 16:15-16). This passage has to do with judgment that was to precede the blessing of the last days. Ezekiel, in his vision of the waters, saw a great multitude of fish (Ezekiel 47:9). In Matthew 13:47-50 the fish was a symbol of the kingdom of Heaven.
The living fish emerging from the dying goat therefore has an important meaning. It speaks of life that comes from the death of the sacrifice. It is of interest to note that Dagon, the god of the Philistines, as well as Oannes, god of the Babylonians, was half fish. Philo tells that Dagon means Fruitfulness or The Seed Producing. This may well be a corruption of the original revelation. In the first sign, Virgo, Christ was seen as the Seed of the woman. Here in Capricornus is the truth that the Seed of the woman was to die and to bring forth living fruit. The same truth is seen in another Biblical picture, where Christ was the corn of wheat which fell into the ground to die and thus bear much fruit (John 12:24).
Is it not significant that the fish became the great symbol of the early Christian church in all its living vitality? The fish in the sign emerged from the goat as a
74	God's Voice in the Stars

new kind of life, symbolizing the fact that the believer in Christ is a new creation (2 Corinthians 5:17).

Sagitta- The Arrow of God's Judgment Against Sin

Here is a small but ancient constellation, one of the original forty-eight. Little Sagitta has eighteen stars, but none brighter than the fourth magnitude. They form a compact little group and are not hard to identify. It might be assumed that the arrow, Sagitta, came from the Archer, Sagittarius, but this cannot be, for the arrow of Sagittarius is still in his bow and is pointed in another direction. This arrow has come from some invisible hand and does not seem at first to make much sense. However, God has a purpose in it, as we shall see. Even its shape does not tell us much, for other star groups have straighter lines and could better be imagined as an arrow. Its name simply means Arrow. In Hebrew the name was Sham, which means Destroying, and this perhaps provides the clue.
The constellation of Sagitta is the arrow of God's justice, which pierced His Son when He became the Bearer of the sin of the world. In the accompanying sign of Capricornus Christ was seen as the dying goat of the sin offering. The arrow of Sagitta depicts the instrument of divine justice on Christ, who took the place of guilty man. The Psalmist spoke of this: "Thine arrows stick fast in me, and Thy hand presseth me sore" (Psalm 38:2). Job the patriarch spoke of a similar thing when he lamented, "The arrows of the Almighty are within me" (Job 6:4). Every believer can appreciate with deep feeling that "He was wounded for our transgressions" (Isaiah 53:5).
The arrow is powered on its course from the start and wings its way until it has accomplished its purpose. It symbolizes the unfailing purpose of the will of God,
The Sacrifice (Capricornus)	75
which was accomplished in the death of His Son. "Thy will be done" was Christ's prayer as He faced the agonies of Calvary. It was a work ordained in past eternity for the glory of God in the eternity to come. "So must the Son of man be lifted up" (John 3:14).

Aquila- The Pierced One Falling

One of the most prominent of the late summer constellations is Aquila. The leading star, Altair, shines a brilliant white and is unmistakable because of a pair of stars which accompany it, one on either side. Aquila is an eagle, but is always pictured in the old zodiacs as a falling eagle. The myths regarding Aquila are confusing and contradictory, but a look at the names of the stars which have come down from antiquity will make the picture clear.
The first-magnitude star in the eagle's neck is Altair, whose name means The Wounding. Al Cair means The Piercing, and the star Tarared Wounded or Torn. Al Shain, in the throat, means Bright and is from a root word meaning Red Colored. The same word is used of the scarlet thread that Rahab let hang down the wall of Jericho to mark her house (Joshua 2:18). The star in the tail, Al Okal, has the sense of Wounded in the Heel. Here again is a united witness which can leave no doubt regarding the significance and purpose of this constellation. We are driven to the conclusion that God was the Author of it all.

The eagle is one of the symbols of Christ in the Bible. Consider the following: "I bare you on eagles' wings, and brought you unto Myself " (Exodus 19:4), or, "As an eagle . . . beareth them on her wings, so the Lord alone
76	God's Voice in the Stars

did lead them" (Deuteronomy 32:11-12). The Lord is often associated with the faces of the cherubim, one of which was an eagle's face (Ezekiel 1:10). This characteristic is compared to the Gospel of John, in which Christ is presented as the Son of God, who "cometh from above [and] is above all" (John 3:31).
The eagle seen in this constellation is consistent with what we have noted in the whole sign of Capricornus. The slain goat of the sin offering is followed by the arrow of God's judgment and the pierced and falling eagle. Can we fail to see the Son of God from Heaven pierced by the arrow of God's judgment and falling into death? John the evangelist, who portrays the "eagle character" of the Lord, is the one who tells of the great cry of triumph on the cross: "It is finished: and He bowed His head, and gave up His spirit" (John 19:30). But neither the gospel story nor the prophetic revelation in the heavens ends with the Son of God falling in death. The last constellation in the sign completes the picture.

Delphinus-Resurrection from Death

Delphinus is a lovely little cluster of stars identified by the diamond shape of the four brightest stars in its head. It is always a fish or dolphin springing out of the water with head upward. Dolphins are noted for their ability to leap high and are often trained for show purposes because of this ability.
The dolphin springing out of the water completes the prophetic picture, showing us that He who died and finished the work of redemption also rose from the dead. In death He could say, "All Thy waves and Thy billows are gone over Me" (Psalm 42:7). But it was impossible that He should stay buried beneath the waves. Death could not
The Sacrifice (Capricornus)	77

hold Him, and in victory over death He arose. He was "raised again for our justification" (Romans 4:25). The life of Him who rose and lives is now shared with those who by His death have been delivered from the bondage of death. The sign began with the living fish from the dying goat. It concludes by emphasizing the triumphant resurrection of the Son of God to a risen life shared with all true believers.

The Sign of Capricornus

1. Capricornus The Sea Goat
Life Resulting from the Sacrificial Death of Christ
2. Sagitta	The Arrow
God's Judgment Against Sin
3. Aquila	The Falling Eagle
The Pierced One Falling
4. Delphinus	The Dolphin Springing Out of the
Water
Resurrection from Death
9
THE LIVING WATER
Aquarius: Blessing Out of Victory
Aquarius follows Capricornus on the revolving stage of the starlit sky. Like its predecessor, Aquarius is a large constellation, though rather obscure. The most notable configuration is the "Y" of stars in the water jar from which Aquarius pours. He is the Waterman holding a large water jar from which comes a seemingly endless stream of water flowing to the south until it reaches the open mouth of Piscis Austrinus (The Southern Fish). Because of the association with water, the ancient Egyptians imagined that the annual setting of Aquarius caused the yearly overflow of the Nile. The Greek legends are not very well defined about Aquarius, but he is sometimes made to represent Ganymede, who succeeded Hebe as the cupbearer of the gods. But however obscure the myths may be that surround Aquarius, and however dim the actual stars may be that form the sign of Aquarius in the sky, its significance as a prophetic sign is bright and clear.
Aquarius is the modern name coming from Latin (as in other zodiacal names that are familiar to us). It means The Water Pourer, which is exactly what the sign depicts. Its Hebrew name was Deli, meaning Water jar, and the
79
80	God's Voice in the Stars

Arabic Delu has the same meaning. Some of the Eastern zodiacs picture only the water jar, but most have the man holding the jar, with the water coming out in a continuous flow. In the right shoulder of the Waterman is the star called Sadalmelik, which means The Record of the Pouring Out. The other shoulder bears the star Sadalsuud (He Who Pours Out), while the right leg is marked by the star Sheat (or Skat), meaning Who Goes and Returns. The star in the jar, Meon, means simply Urn. In the famous Egyptian zodiac of Dendereh the name of Aquarius is Hupei Tirion (The Place of Pouring Out). The names, therefore, consistently witness to a single theme. Does this theme have a parallel in the Bible, as we have seen in the other signs?
The Lord Jesus said, "Whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life" (John 4:14). Aquarius presents to us the Lord Jesus Christ as the Giver of the living water to His redeemed people. In the preceding sign, Capricornus, the
truth of redemption by blood sacrifice was emphasized. Now Aquarius teaches that those who have been redeemed by blood are given the living water of eternal life. Christ poured out His blood in redeeming His people, and now He pours out the water of life in blessing His people.
In the wilderness experience of Israel they came to a crisis point at Rephidim, where there was no water. Moses was instructed to strike the rock with his rod so that water would flow from it in sufficient quantity for all the people of Israel (Exodus 17:4-6). Moses struck the rock and water gushed out, giving life and refreshment. The smitten rock became the fountain of blessing. The Old Testament prophets spoke of the future blessing of Israel in these terms. He who "was smitten of God and afflicted" is also
The Living Water (Aquarius)	81

seen as bringing "streams in the desert." Speaking of the coming kingdom, Isaiah said, "But there the glorious LORD will be unto us a place of broad rivers and streams" (Isaiah 33:21). He also prophesied, "A king shall reign in righteousness ... and a man shall be ... as rivers of water in a dry place" (Isaiah 32:1-2).
Balaam, the hireling prophet, in one of his remarkable prophecies saw the blessing of Israel as water poured out of a bucket. We read in Numbers 24 that the Spirit of God came upon him, and he saw the settlements of Israel spreading out like broad valleys and like rivers bringing abundant water, with the people like planted gardens by the sides of the rivers. Of the blessing that would come from the Lord he said, "He shall pour the water out of His buckets, and His seed shall be in many waters" (Numbers 24:7). How much like Aquarius is this prophecy, speaking of the future blessing poured out on Israel!
The application to the believer today is the same as that of the water coming out of the rock. Paul refers to it as the refreshment and blessing of Christ the Rock to His believing people (1 Corinthians 10:4). The Lord Himself invited us to come to Him for salvation and satisfaction when He said, "If any man thirst, let him come unto Me and drink" (John 7:37). Christ the great Aquarius is the One who bestows on His people the water of life and the blessings of salvation. The living water flows out as a result of Christ's atoning death on the Cross.

Piscis Austrinus- The Living Water Received

The first constellation, or decan, of Aquarius is a fish with a wide-open mouth into which flows the water from the great jar which Aquarius holds. Its name is similar to the zodiacal sign of Pisces (fishes), and so it is called The
82	God's Voice in the Stars
Southern Fish (either Piscis Austrinus or Piscis Australis). It is a small constellation to the south of Aquarius and is marked by a single bright star, Fomalhaut. The two righthand stars in the square of Pegasus point south to it, and there is no other bright star in the vicinity.
Fomalhaut means The Mouth of the Fish. The fish receives and drinks the water from the exhaustless urn of the Waterman. It pictures the reception and possession of an endless stream of blessing that Christ bestows on His people. In the sign of Capricornus, a living fish emerged from the goat of sacrifice. It lives as a result of the atoning death of the goat. Now in the sign of Aquarius we see the complement of that truth. The fish not only lives, but receives the full supply of the water of life: "Whosoever shall drink of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst" (John 4:14).

Pegasus- The Soon Return of the Redeemer
To those living in the northern hemisphere perhaps the best-known constellation in the autumn sky is Pegasus, the winged horse. It dominates the star groups to the
South, being brighter than Aquarius and Cetus. Pegasus is easily recognized by its very large square of bright stars, though in fact the upper left-hand star in the square belongs to Andromeda. The familiar figure of the flying horse moving swiftly has been made popular as the trademark of a well-known brand of petroleum products.
The old zodiac of Dendereh has two written characters under the figure of the horse, Pe and Ka, which together as Peka or Pega mean Chief. Sus means Horse and also Swiftly Coming. The names of the individual stars are in the same vein. Markab means Returning from Afar, Scheat means Who Carries, Enif means The Branch, and
The Living Water (Aquarius)	83

Matar means Who Causes to Overflow (with Joy). Putting these thoughts together, the One who is returning swiftly is identified with the Branch; He comes in victory and gladness with good news for those to whom He comes.
So Pegasus is a prophetic revelation of the glorious coming of Him who pours out the living water. Though many of these blessings are being showered on His people today, the complete fulfillment awaits a coming day when Christ shall come with power and great glory. At that time a groaning creation shall receive everything for which it now longs. The whole earth shall be filled with the glory of the Lord: "For the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the LORD, as the waters cover the sea" (Isaiah 11:9). Pegasus assures us that the final promise of Scripture is true and to be fulfilled very soon: "Surely I come quickly." The final message from the glorified Saviour was the fact of His soon coming. The heart of every true believer should answer, "Even so come, Lord Jesus" (Revelation 22:20).
Cygnus- The Sure Return of the Redeemer

There is a cross in the northern sky, sometimes called the Northern Cross, in contrast to the Southern Cross. The proper name of the cross-shaped star group is Cygnus, and it reveals a beautiful swan flying across the heavens. Because of its cross shape and its brightness, it is seen at a glance. It also lies in the path of the Milky Way, making it all the richer in its starlit glory. Cygnus has variable stars, double stars, and even one quadruple star, making it a most interesting object for the astronomer, but its Biblical significance is worthy of our attention as well. It is the last of the decans or constellations belonging to Aquarius and completes its message very well indeed. It has to do with
84	God's Voice in the Stars

the sure return in blessing of the Lord Jesus Christ.
Cygnus was called Tesark, meaning This from Afar, in the zodiac of Dendereh, indicating the coming of Him who has gone to prepare a place for His people. Its name in both Greek and Latin means Circling and Returning. The brightest star (which is of the second magnitude) is Deneb (The Lord Comes). (Note that there are other stars with the same name in both Capricornus and Cetus.) This star is also called Arided, which means He Shall Come Down. The star Albireo in the swan's beak is the Arabic word for Flying Quickly, while the star Sadr means Who Returns as in a Circle. The two stars in the tail, Azel and Fafage, have names meaning Who Returns Quickly and Shining Forth.
The meanings of the star names leave no doubt as to the message of Cygnus. It concerns the Lord, seen in the beginning of this chapter on Aquarius, now pouring out the fullness of blessing on His people. Piscis Austrinus taught that His people would welcome and receive those blessings. Pegasus went on to show that as a flying horse the Giver of those blessings would come powerfully, swiftly, and with great joy. And now here Cygnus teaches that His coming is also certain and in shining beauty: "He shall come to be glorified in His saints and to be admired in all them that believe" (2 Thessalonians 1:10).
Non-Christian astrologers tell their adherents that the world is about to enter a new star age, the age of Aquarius. They state that the ages of man indicated by the stars last approximately two thousand years each, beginning with the age of Leo, about ten thousand years before Christ. They say that the age of Pisces, beginning about the time of Christ, was an age of tears and sorrow focused on the death of Christ, but that the dawning age of Aquarius is to be marked by peace, freedom, and harmony. However all
The Living Water (Aquarius)	85

this may be, the true believer is looking for the coming of the Prince of Peace, who will set up His kingdom and reign in righteousness, pouring out blessing on all His people.

The Sign of Aquarius

1. Aquarius	The Waterman
The Water of Life Poured Out on the Redeemed
2. Piscis	The Southern Fish
Austrinus	The Living Water Received in Fullness
3. Pegasus	The Winged Horse
The Soon Return of the Redeemer
4. Cygnus	The Swan
The Sure Return of the Redeemer
10


THE LIBERATOR
Pisces: Deliverance Out of Bondage
Pisces is considered together with another constellation with which it is associated. This second constellation is called The Band, and is the cord which is tied to the two fish, ono at each end, and in the middle is attached to the neck of the sea monster, Cetus. Modern astronomy no longer recognizes The Band as being separate, but it was always listed as a distinct constellation by the ancients. Pisces and The Band are marked by a V-shaped line of stars, below and to the loft of Pegasus and generally rather faint and obscure. Pisces is the last of the signs of the zodiac in modern astrology, though in its proper order it is seventh. According to a Greek myth, Venus and Cupid escaped from Typhoon the giant by changing themselves into fish and throwing themselves into the River Euphrates. In the end Minorca is supposed to have placed the two fish in the sky to commemorate their escape from the giant.
Another fish (Piscis Austrinus) was noted in the preceding sign of Aquarius which was drinking in all the fullness from the great urn. It signified the fullness of salvation which was to flow to the people of God and be received. Along with this truth, is the reminder (in the
87
88	God's Voice in the Stars

constellations of Pegasus and Cygnus) of the soon and sure return of Christ to pour out this fullness. Now the sign of Pisces teaches another side of the truth of the blessings of salvation bestowed. The two fish here are not seen free and drinking in the fullness, but are bound and held securely back by a strong band or cord. This cord is tied around the tails of both fish and is fastened in the middle to the neck of Cetus, the monster of the sea. The symbolism here is all connected with the sea, in which the fish are restrained from freedom and blessing by being tied to the monster.
In Scripture the heathen nations are sometimes symbolized by the sea (Daniel 7:2; Revelation 13:1). God's people are seen as fish in the sea of nations, taken away from the place of promise and blessing and scattered among the nations without national identity themselves. Amos the prophet foretold this to Israel: "He will take you away with hooks, and your posterity away with fishhooks" (Amos 4:2). How many of the Old Testament prophets spoke of the dispersion of Israel and Judah because of their sin!
Following their dispersion they would be under the influence of evil, as they have been for the past nineteen hundred years among the nations of the world. This was foreseen in Pisces, where the fish were bound to the evil monster of the sea. It is only since 1948 that Israel has had a national identity in modern times, and even yet only a small percentage of the world's Jews have returned to the land. But God's promises are sure, and His purposes for Israel will certainly be fulfilled: "Behold, I will send for many fishers, saith the LORD, and they shall fish them; and after will I send for many hunters, and they shall hunt them from every mountain, and from every hill, and from out of the holes of the rocks" (Jeremiah 16:16).
It is most significant to us in the last quarter of the
The Liberator (Pisces)	89

twentieth century that the little nation of Israel has again been established and that the Jews are being gathered from almost every country on earth to their ancient land. The indications are that the setting aside of Israel from national blessing is almost at an end. The sixty-ninth week in the great prophecy of Daniel of the seventy weeks ended at the cutting off of Messiah the Prince. The national dealings of God with Israel, as outlined in the seventieth week of Daniel's prophecy, are about to commence (Daniel 9:24-27). Long before the Hebrew prophets lived, the sign of Pisces foretold the scattering of God's people among the nations.
The sign of Pisces is also connected with the coming of Messiah and the regathering of Israel. The name of Pisces in the Dendereh zodiac was Pisces Hori (Orion), which means The Fishes of Him Who Comes. Even though the fish are bound, the hope of Messiah's coming is before them. The Hebrews called it Dagim, meaning The Fishes. Alsamaca, in the fish pointing northward, means The Upheld. Isaiah enlarged on this theme: "But thou, Israel, art My servant, Jacob whom I have chosen, the seed of Abraham My friend. Thou whom I have taken from the ends of the earth, and called thee from the corners thereof, and said unto thee, Thou art My servant; I have chosen thee and not cast thee away. Fear thou not, for I am with thee; be not dismayed; for I am thy God. I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of My righteousness" (Isaiah 41:8-10).
Another star in the other fish which points along the path of the zodiac has the name Okda and means The United. If we associate this name with the fact that there are two fish connected by a band, we can perhaps see the two divisions of Israel which were separately taken into captivity and have never yet been reunited in their land. In
90	God's Voice in the Stars

His time God will one day gather the Jews from all twelve tribes back to the land and reunite them (Revelation 7:48).

The Band- The Redeemed Bound

This is the band that connects the two fish and by which they are connected to Cetus. The Arabic name was Alrisha and still survives in the name of the star in the neck of Cetus. It means simply The Band or Bridle. The Old Egyptian name for The Band was U, which means He Comes. The Or is similar to Hori in the name for Pisces, and both have the same meaning and belong together. It is also interesting to note that the front foot of Aries (Christ the Lamb) rests on The Band. The Lamb that Israel once rejected will one day break the fetters by which blessing is withheld.

Andromeda-The Redeemed in Bondage
and Affliction

Andromeda is a line of reasonably bright stars extending diagonally away from the upper left-hand star in the square of Pegasus toward Perseus. It is an interesting constellation to astronomers, particularly the great spiral nebula called Messier 31. On a very clear night this can be picked out with the naked eye. Andromeda is directly overhead during the evenings of November and December in the latitude of London and New York. At her head is Pegasus, the winged horse, and at her feet is Perseus, her Deliverer. The Greek poet Aratus declared four hundred years before Christ, "Her feet point to her bridegroom, Perseus, on whose shoulder they rest."
Andromeda is a woman with chains fastened to her feet
The Liberator (Pisces)	91

and hands, binding her securely. She is a captive in misery and distress. Her prophetic purpose in the heavens is to amplify the truth already emphasized in the sign of Pisces: the truth of Israel's bondage during the period of the rejection of Messiah. Andromeda's name in Hebrew means The Chained. Other meanings amplify this theme. The star Alpheratz (in her head) means The Broken Down, Mirach (in her body) means The Weak, and the star in her left foot has the name Almaak, meaning Struck Down. Another star is Almara, The Afflicted. Once again the ancient names give witness to God's original purpose for the constellations.
In their day the prophets spoke of Israel as "the Daughter of Zion" in bondage and affliction: "Hear now this, thou afflicted . . . . Awake, awake; put on thy strength, 0 Zion; put on thy beautiful garments, 0
Jerusalem .... Loose thyself from the bands of thy neck, O captive daughter of Zion. For thus saith the LORD, Ye have sold yourselves for nought; and ye shall be redeemed without money" (Isaiah 51:21-52:3). "The virgin daughter of my people is broken with a great breach, with a very grievous blow" (Jeremiah 14:17). Both the heavens and the prophets bear witness to the bondage of Israel for a time. But God has not cast away His people, nor will He fail to fulfill all that He has promised them (Romans 11:12).

Cepheus- The Deliverer Coming to Rule

Sharing the extreme North Pole of the sky with Ursa Minor is Cepheus. It is not quite as conspicuous as other constellations in the area and therefore not so well known by the general public. Cepheus is a king sitting on a throne near his wife Cassiopea. His foot is on the very
92	God's Voice in the Stars

polestar itself, and his head is marked by a tiny triangle of stars. Here is a crowned King, wearing a royal robe and with His scepter in his hand. He is the Deliverer for whom the chained woman, Andromeda, waits. He is also the One who will free His people from the dominion of the sea monster, depicted in Pisces. The symbolism of Pisces and Andromeda has taught us that the ultimate blessing from God for His own was withheld for a time because of their sin. Now the final symbol in Pisces portrays a coming King who shall unloose the shackles that bind them and free them to inherit all the blessing that is waiting for them.
The Egyptians called him Pe-ku-hor, which means The Ruler That Comes. He is known as Cepheus today, which is a Greek name that comes from a Hebrew word meaning The Branch (or Royal Branch). The Ethiopians called him Hyk, The King. Star names add to the imagery. The star Alphirk in his belt means The Redeemer, while the star in his left knee, Alrai, means Who Bruises or Breaks. Do we need to ask with the Psalmist, "Who is this King of Glory?" We can respond as in the psalm, "The LORD of hosts, He is the King of Glory" (Psalm 24:10). Note what names adorn Him even within the compass of this constellation: Ruler, Branch, King, Redeemer. In all the scope of history there is only One to whom all these names can refer. He will surely come to set His people free, and He shall reign forever and ever!

The Sign of Pisces

1. Pisces	The Fishes
The Blessings of Salvation Delayed 2. The Band	A Cord
T he Redeemed Bound
The Liberator (Pisces)	93
3. Andromeda The Chained Woman
The Redeemed in Bondage and Affliction
4. Cepheus	The Crowned King
The Deliverer Coming to Rule
11
THE CROWNED LAMB Aries: Glory Out of Humiliation
Aries is the last of the signs in the second group, which includes Capricornus, Aquarius, Pisces, and Aries. This quartet of signs pictures the blessings of salvation. Capricornus signifies the blessing of life from death. Aquarius pictures the blessing of salvation's fullness. , Pisces signifies the delay of the promised blessing. Now in Aries we see the blessing fully realized.
Aries lies between Pisces and Taurus and is marked by a small group of three stars east of the Pleiades. False astrology begins with Aries, probably because its modern structure was developed in classical times. During classical times the sun was in Aries at the spring equinox, and so it was at that point that astrology began. The dates for the twelve signs are still reckoned from those times, so that a person born under the sign of Aries (March 21-April 20) is supposed to be influenced by this sign. The truth is that the sun has long since passed out of the sign of Aries during those dates, a fact that astrologers conveniently ignore because it invalidates their predictions. All this was a perversion of God's original intention of the signs, for they were to speak of the coming Redeemer and His wonderful work. The proper beginning for this is in the
95
96	God's Voice in the Stars
sign of Virgo, and not Aries.
Aries has a most interesting and instructive message for the student of Biblical prophecy and the history of salvation. Aries usually carries the symbol of the ram, but many of the oldest zodiacs portray a lamb (with no horns), and in some ancient zodiacs the lamb has a circular crown on its head. The presentation of a lamb instead of a grown ram is confirmed by the meanings of the names associated with Aries. The Hebrew name for Aries was Taleh, which means Lamb, while the Arabic name, Hamal, means Sheep, Gentle, Merciful. Modern uranographers have mistaken Hamel for the name of the brightest star, but ancient astronomers had a separate name for the star. In Syriac the name for Aries was Amroo, meaning Lamb. The New Testament in that language uses the same word for the Lord Jesus; John the Baptist cried, "Behold the Lamb of God!" (John 1:29) So Aries presents to us Christ as the Lamb of God.
The next truth which is emphasized in the sign of Aries is that the Lamb is also a sacrifice. The names of some of the stars in Aries witness to this. Elnath, the brightest star, means The bounded or Slain. The nearby star, called Sheretan, has a name meaning Bruised, and the other notable star is Mesartim, whose name means The Bound. These names witness to the fact that the Lamb is also the sacrifice, "The Lamb that was slain." The Akkadian name of Aries was Bara-ziggar, which means The Sacrifice of Righteousness.
The third idea conveyed by the names in Aries is that of kingship. The name Aries its has the meaning Chief or Head. In the Dendereh zodiac its name means The Reign of Ammon. In putting the three ideas together, Aries presents to us a Lamb sacrificed but reigning as King. In this we see the Lamb of God, who by the sacrifice of
The Crowned Lamb (Aries)	97

Himself takes away sin, but now reigns as King of kings.
About the time of the exodus of Israel from Egypt, the sun entered Aries on the fourteenth day of the Jewish month of Nissan. This was the day on which the Israelites were ordered to slay a lamb and sprinkle its blood on the lintel and doorposts of their houses. In the course of almost fifteen hundred years, and due to the precession of the equinoxes, the sun receded further into the sign of Aries. By the fourteenth day of Nissan in the year A.D. 30 (the probable date of Christ's crucifixion), the sun stood in the head of Aries near the stars Elnath (The Founded) and Sheretan (The Bruised).
In the supernatural darkness of Calvary, people who looked for the sun would see instead Elnath and Sheretan, which had witnessed of that very hour for millenniums past. But probably few people alive in that day knew their prophetic significance.

Cassiopeia-Freed and Preparing for
Her Marriage to the Redeemer
Probably one of the best-known constellations in the starlit sky, Cassiopeia shines nightly on all the northern countries of the world throughout the year. Opposite the
pointers to the North Star and about the same distance to the other side of it, Cassiopeia resembles an irregular W. It lies in the path of the Milky Way, and even binoculars will reveal glorious star fields in the area.
Cassiopeia is a woman sitting on a throne. With her left hand she is fixing her hair, and with her right hand she adjusts her robes. She seems to be making herself ready for presentation. Near her sits King Cepheus on his throne. Cassiopeia is in contrast to Andromeda, the woman in chains. Andromeda was chained and miserable. Cas-
98	God's Voice in the Stars

siopeia is free and happy. In mythology Cassiopeia was the mother of beautiful Andromeda, but in prophetic significance, Cassiopeia and Andromeda are a before-andafter presentation of the same person. The chained woman represents God's people in captivity among the nations, having rejected their Messiah. The bride-queen making herself ready is a picture of regathered and restored Israel adorned for her Husband.
She is Cassiopeia, The Beautiful, The Enthroned. The Arab astronomer Albumazer said that her ancient name was Daughter of Splendor. The Arabic name is Ruchba, (The Enthroned), which is similar to the Egyptian name Set, meaning Set Up (as Queen). So she is the glorified woman. Star names add to her glory. The star in her breast is Shedar and means The Freed, and is in contrast to Andromeda's name, which means The Chained. Another star is Caph (Branch). This is the Hebrew word used for the palm branches used to make booths during the happy Feast of Tabernacles (Leviticus 23:40-41). The same branches were used to welcome the King to the city of David when the women cried, "Blessed is He that cometh in the name of the Lord."
Cassiopeia is the restored wife of Jehovah, making herself ready. On her right sits the crowned King Cepheus, holding out to her the scepter of acceptance. Several Old Testament passages speak clearly of the restored and delivered people of God as the wife and bride of Jehovah. Consider the following passages: Isaiah 54:5-8; 61:10-11; 62:3-5; Jeremiah 31:3-12. Israel as Jehovah's wife is no more to be termed Desolate, but Hephzibah-My Delight in Her.
It is also true that the Church is called the Bride of Christ, but the primary application here is to the deliverance and blessing of Israel as the restored wife of
The Crowned Lamb (Aries)	99

Jehovah. In Isaiah 53 the Lamb led to the slaughter is presented. In the next chapter (54) Jehovah is seen as the Husband of Israel, the restored wife. So in this sign, Aries, the Lamb is followed by Cassiopeia, the bride.

Cetus- The Great Enemy Subdued and Bound

Cetus is the largest of all the constellations in the sky. It lies below Pisces and Aries, but for all its size it is not readily identified, being rather dim. It has one most remarkable star which is variable over a regular period of about eleven months. For six weeks it is quite bright and seen with the naked eye. This star is Mira, in the neck of the monster. It means The Rebel and fits very well the character of the constellation, picturing Satan as the enemy and first rebel against God.
Cetus is a sea monster. It is probably the same sea creature as the leviathan and dragon of Scripture. Job 41:1-2,9-10 (ERV) speaks of this creature in fearful terms:

Canst thou draw out leviathan with a fishhook?
Or press down his tongue with a cord? Canst thou put a rope into his nose?
Or pierce his jaw through with a hook?...
Shall not one be cast down even at the sight of him? None is so fierce that he dare stir him up.

Leviathan is connected with the "crooked serpent" (Isaiah 27:1). In the day when the Lord will punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity (the day of the Lord), the dragon that is in the sea, leviathan, the crooked serpent, shall be slain by the great and strong sword of Jehovah (Isaiah 26:21-27:1). Of him the Apostle John wrote, "And I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit and a great chain in

100	God's Voice in the Stars

his hand. And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the Devil, and Satan, and bound him a thousand years" (Revelation 20:1-2). What could not be bound by Job or any other man is bound and held fast by the angel of God.
The names in this constellation again confirm its teaching. The Egyptians called Cetus by the name Knem, which means Subdued. The brightest star (in the head) is Menkar and means The Bound or Chained Enemy. Another star in the tail is Diphda and means Overthrown or Thrust Down. And, as we have already noted, the star Mira means Rebel. These names tell us that the strong and fearful enemy will be cast down and bound (Revelation 20:2). The ultimate Victor is the Lord Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God, crowned with glory and honor. The Lamb (Aries) is seen above the head of the sea monster. The Lamb is its master, even as Christ is "greater ... than he that is in the world."

Perseus- The Breaker Delivering
The Redeemed

The last scene in the second act of the prophetic panorama of the sky closes with the appearance of the mighty man named Perseus. It is a winter constellation in the northern hemisphere, just north of the Pleiades and in the Milky Way. Though it has no first-magnitude stars, it is a splendid constellation and is of great interest to star lovers. To lovers of the prophetic Scriptures it also holds great interest.
Perseus is a strong soldier with a helmet on his head, and a great sword in his right hand. In his left hand he carries the head of his adversary dripping with blood. Perseus is the Greek name and comes from the Hebrew
The Crowned Lamb (Aries)	101

Peretz, meaning The Breaker. It is the same word that Micah the prophet uses of the Lord Jesus Christ when He shall gather the remnant of Israel and put them together like sheep in the fold: "The Breaker goes up before them .... So their king goes on before them, and the LORD [is] at their head" (Micah 2:12-13 NASB). In this passage Christ is seen going ahead of His people, releasing them from the place of their captivity and breaking down the doors and gates that held them in.
In the old Dendereh zodiac his name is Kar Knem, meaning Who Fights and Subdues (compare the name Knem in Cetus). So Perseus is the Breaker who subdues, and the monster is subdued. The first star is Mirfak and means Who Helps, and the star Algenib, in the right shoulder, means Who Carries Away. Atik is the star in his foot and means Who Breaks.
The star in the head of the victim which Perseus carries in his hand is named Algol. An old name for it was The Demon. Algol is from the Arabic Al Ghoul, meaning The Evil Spirit. Another name for it is Rosh Satan, The Head of the Adversary. Interestingly enough, the old Hebrew root of this star means The Trodden Underfoot. All these meanings throw light on the victory of Christ over the old enemy, Satan. It fulfills the first promise of Scripture, in which the Seed of the woman was to crush the head of the serpent. By this conquest Christ's people would ultimately be delivered. How gloriously has the history of salvation proved these ancient truths! How wonderful that the remaining part will soon be completed! The Greek myths which tell that Perseus cut off the head of Medusa the Gorgon and then freed the beautiful Andromeda from the sea monster to become his wife are but a faint echo of the victory won by the great Perseus, the Lord Jesus Christ Himself.
102	God's Voice in the Stars The Sign of Aries

1. Aries	The Lamb
Deliverance Realized
2. Cassiopeia	The Enthroned Woman
Freed and Preparing for Her Marriage to Her Deliverer
3. Cetus	The Sea Monster
The Great Enemy Subdued and Bound
4. Perseus	The Breaker
The Mighty Deliverer
e
12
THE JUDGE


Taurus: His Glorious Coming
The last of the three acts in the starlit panorama on the stage of the universe presents Christ the judge of all the earth reigning in power and majesty and concluding the drama of salvation in the history of the planet Earth. Act One presented Him as the Suffering Saviour delivering His people from the penalty of sin. Act Two showed Him as the Glorified Redeemer delivering His people from the power of sin. Now in the third act He is the Reigning Redeemer delivering His people from the presence of sin. The sign of Taurus opens the third act, showing us the coming in power and glory of the great Judge.
As a constellation of stars, Taurus is easy to locate on a clear winter's night. The bright-reddish star in the eye of Taurus is lined up with the belt of Orion and forms the upper-left star in the familiar V shape marking the Bull's face. Taurus has many features of astronomical interest, including the clusters of the Pleiades and the Hyades. There is also a naked-eye double and the wreck of a supernova, called the Crab Nebula. The sign itself is of an enormous rushing bull, with long, sharp horns pointing forward and upward. Only the head and shoulders appear on the old zodiacs, in the same way as Pegasus shows only
105
106	God's Voice in the Stars

the head and shoulders of the flying horse.
Taurus is unlike the domestic bulls, being almost certainly a now-extinct ferocious relative of domestic cattle, called rimu in the Hebrew Scriptures. Rimu is translated unicorn in the Authorized Version and was once thought to be a mythological, one-horned creature. It is now known to be a larger and fiercer type of cattle which modern versions usually term the wild ox. Famous for its size and ferocity, it was the prize of great hunters in the records of Egyptian kings like Tutmose III and Assyrian kings. It seems to have survived at least until the times of
the Caesars but is now extinct. The rimu was untamable and intractible, as in the book of job: "Will the rimu be willing to serve thee, or abide by thy crib? Canst thou bind the rimu with his band in the furrow?" (Job 39:9-10)
The wild bull (rimu) is a symbol of power and rule. Balaam describes the power of Jehovah on the behalf of Israel: "He is for them like the horns of the wild ox [rimu]" (Numbers 23:22 NASB). When Moses blessed the tribes before his death, he said of the tribe of Joseph, "His horns are the horns of the wild ox [rimu]; with them he shall push [gore] the peoples" (Deuteronomy 33:17 NASB). The two horns of the rimu were likened to Joseph's two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh. Isaiah spoke of the day of Messiah's coming in power and judgment on the day of His wrath:

For the Lord's indignation is against all the nations, And His wrath against all their armies.... For the Lord has a sacrifice in Bozrah, And a great slaughter in the land of Edom.
Wild oxen [rimu] shall also fall [go down] with them, And young bulls with strong ones; Thus their land shall be soaked with blood .... For the Lord has a day of vengeance,
The Judge (Taurus)	107

A year of recompense for the cause of Zion (Isaiah 34:2,6-8
NASB).
Taurus is the sign of a coming judge and of coming judgment. It is the day of vengeance of our God (Isaiah 61:2). It is a day of wrath from which the Lord's people in this age shall be delivered, for they are not appointed to wrath (1 Thessalonians 5:9). But it certainly comes upon God's ancient people and upon the nations. The brightreddish star in the Bull's eye is Aldeberan, The Governor, Captain, Leader. The Pleiades has the meaning Congregation of the Judge, and the star in the middle of the Pleiades is called Alcyone, meaning The Center. The bright star at the tip of the left horn is Elnath, which means The Wounded. This reminds us that the coming Judge is the One who was "wounded for our transgressions." This star also seems to belong to Auriga and may properly belong there.
Seiss tells us that there was a widespread idea among early nations connecting Taurus with the flood in Noah's day and the Pleiades with the ark of Noah and the souls that were saved in it. Whether this is of significance or not, the theme of judgment on a sinful world is there. Jude quotes Enoch (who may well have had a hand in the formation of the zodiac) along the same theme: "Behold, the Lord came with many thousands of His holy ones, to execute judgment upon all, and to convict all the ungodly of all their ungodly deeds which they have done in an ungodly way, and of all the harsh things which ungodly sinners have spoken against Him" (Jude 14-15, NASB).

Orion- The Triumph and Brightness
of His Coming

The first of the decans or constellations belonging to
108	God's Voice in the Stars

Taurus is Orion, which is, without doubt, one of the most spectacular and wonderful sights in all the heavens. As has already been indicated in an earlier chapter, the brilliance of Orion is seen both in its starry wonder and in its prophetic significance. It is magnificent. Two of its stars are of the first magnitude: Rigel, a pure white star, and Betelgeuse, an orange-red color. All the other leading stars are white.
Orion is a mighty hunter with a tremendous club raised high in his right hand. In his left hand he holds the skin of a lion which he has killed. The lion skin is marked by a curved line of small stars. His belt and sword are well known and his head is marked by a small triangle. His left foot is raised to crush the head of his enemy, Lepus. The Greek poet Aratus sang of Orion:

Eastward beyond the region of the Bull,
Stands great Orion. And who, when night is clear, Beholds him gleaming bright, shall cast his eyes in vain To find a sign more glorious in all heaven?

The Scriptures mention Orion as a constellation, twice in job and once in the prophecy of Amos (Job 9:9; 38:31; Amos 5:8). The Hebrew name Chesil means A Strong One, A Hero. The Egyptians called him Hagat, meaning This Is He Who Triumphs, and the hieroglyphic characters below read Oar. This is connected with the original spelling of it as Oarion and is from a root meaning Light. The Akkadian name was similar: Urana, The Light of Heaven. Orion means Coming Forth as Light. Historians and scribes have sought to flatter earthly heroes by comparing them to Orion, from Nimrod to Napoleon. However, all these heroes pale into insignificance before Him of whom Orion truly speaks-the Prince of Glory,
The Judge (Taurus)	109

the Lord Jesus Christ.
The hilt of Orion's sword is the figure of a Lamb, and He is thus identified with the Lamb that was seen in Aries. The brightest star is the splendid Betelgeuse, whose name means The Coming of the Branch, the same Branch that has been associated with many of the constellations already considered. Orion pictures His glorious coming: "Who may abide the day of His coming?" (Malachi 3:2) The star Rigel in the foot that is raised to crush the enemy means The Foot That Crushes, and takes us back to the first promise of the Redeemer (Genesis 3:15). Bellatrix, in Orion's shoulder, means Quickly Coming or Swiftly Destroying, while Saiph, in his leg, means Bruised and is the very word used in Genesis 3:15 concerning the Seed of the woman, whose heel was to be bruised. Like Ophiuchus, in the sign of Scorpio, one leg is bruised while the other is crushing the enemy, exactly as in the primeval prophecy concerning Christ.
But that is not all. In addition to the names of the stars in the four corners of Orion, other stars have names and significant meanings too. Alnitak, in his belt, means The Wounded One. Mintaka means Dividing as a Sacrifice (Leviticus 8:2). Other names of stars no longer identifiable are: Algebor, The Mighty; Alnagjed, The Prince; Almirzam, The Ruler; and Heka, Coming. The witness of Orion is bright and clear. He who once was slain is coming as the Prince of Light and Glory to judge the world. Isaiah spoke of this:
Arise, shine; for thy light is come,
And the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee. For, behold, the darkness shall cover the earth, And gross darkness the people: But the LORD shall arise upon thee, And His glory shall be seen upon thee.
110	God's Voice in the Stars

And the Gentiles shall come to thy light,
And kings to the brightness of thy rising (Isaiah 60:1-3).

Eridanus- The Wrath of God Poured
Out on His Enemies

From the raised foot of Orion flows a river of fire which runs in a serpentine course, first toward Cetus the Sea Monster and then down past that part of the sky visible in Europe and America and ending in a brilliant star called Achernar, in the same southern latitude as the Southern Cross. Eridanus can be seen as a complete formation only from the southern hemisphere. What can be seen from northern countries occupies the area between Orion and Cetus, though it is not very bright and is hard to pick out.
This river of fire has several named stars. Achernar means The Afterpart of the River. Cursa means Bent Down and Zourac means Flowing. It speaks of the final judgment by which the wicked will be cast into the lake of fire. The Greek legends, though perverted, connect Eridanus with fire, which the patriarchs knew so well. The inspired prophets also wrote in fiery terms about the wrath of God's judgment.
I kept looking
Until thrones were set up,
And the Ancient of Days took His seat.... A river of fire was flowing And coming out from before Him;
And myriads upon myriads were standing before Him; The court sat,
And the books were opened (Daniel 7:9-10 NASB).

Behold, the name of the LORD comes from a remote place;
The judge (Taurus)	111

Burning is His anger, and dense is His smoke;
His lips are filled with indignation,
And His tongue is like a consuming fire... . For Topheth has long been ready.... A pyre of fire with plenty of wood;
The breath of the LORD, like a torrent of brimstone, sets
it afire (Isaiah 30:27,33 NASB).

Who can stand before His indignation?
Who can endure the burning of His anger?
His wrath is poured out like fire (Nahum 1:6 NASB).

The fire of God's judgment is surely coming on this poor world and its nations and peoples. The prophet asks, "Who can endure the day of His coming? And who can stand when He appears? For He is like a refiner's fire" (Malachi 3:2 NASB). Habakkuk saw Messiah's coming, as both Orion and Eridanus show (as light and as fire):

His radiance is like the sunlight;
He has rays flashing from His hand, And there is the hiding of His power. Before Him goes pestilence,
And plague comes after Him (Habakkuk 3:4-5).

Auriga-The Protection of the Redeemed
'in the Day of Wrath

Auriga is a lovely constellation north of Taurus and Orion. It will immediately be recognized by the very bright star Capella, which is not only one of the four brightest stars seen from the northern hemisphere but is a distinct yellowish color, like our own sun. Auriga is about the same size as Orion and has a somewhat similar rectangular shape if Elnath is included, as on many older star
112	God's Voice in the Stars

maps. It will be seen very high in the sky during winter evenings.
Prophetically, Auriga belongs with Orion and Eridanus in the sign of Taurus to complete the awesome picture of the coming of the Lord in power and great glory. Taurus shows the power of His coming. Orion shows the splendor of His coming. Eridanus shows the fiery judgment of His coming. Without the truth of Auriga there would be no hope, even for the people of God.
However, God has given hope to His people, and this is signified by the Shepherd, Auriga. He sits in calm grace above the rushing wild bull. In his left hand he holds a mother goat which has just given birth to a pair of kids in his lap. The goat rests with its front feet on the shoulders of Auriga, looking at the rushing bull, but is safe and protected with her kids in the arms of the Shepherd. In the heart of the goat is the brilliant star Capella, which means She Goat, just as does the older Hebrew name, Alioth. In the Shepherd's right shoulder is the star Menkalinan, which means The Chain of the Goats. If the star Elnath properly belongs to Auriga (which seems likely), then its name, which means Wounded or Slain, identifies the Shepherd as Him who was once slain as the Good Shepherd giving His life for the sheep (John 10:11).
The small triangle of stars near Capella is called Haedi, The Kids, and marks the two kids, apparently just born. Auriga was known as the charioteer by the Greeks, who mistook the band in his hands for the reigns of a chariot. But there is no chariot and there are no horses, nor any explanation for the goat and kids in his lap. Auriga is the Shepherd and is in the character of the Chief Shepherd, who shall appear in the day of His coming glory (1 Peter 5:4). It is of that day that Isaiah speaks:
The Judge (Taurus)	113

Behold, the Lord GOD will come with might, With His arm ruling for Him. Behold, His reward is with Him, And His recompense before Him. Like a shepherd He will tend His flock; In His arm He will gather the lambs, And carry them in His bosom; He will gently lead the nursing ewes.
(Isaiah 40:10-11 NASB)

It is clear from the Bible as well as from the star picture that Christ's sheep will be safe in the day of His coming in power and wrath. Ezekiel told us that His flock would be saved and have one Shepherd (Ezekiel 34:22; 37:24). So Auriga gives us the assurance that the true people of God will "abide in the day of His coming." With perfect harmony the signs in the sky echo the revelation of the Scriptures.
The Sign of Taurus

1. Taurus	The Wild Bull
The Judge Coming to Rule
2. Orion	The Prince of Glory
The Triumph and Brightness of His Coming
3. Eridanus	The River of Fire
The Fiery Wrath Poured on His Enemies
4. Auriga	The Shepherd
The Protection of His People in the Day of Wrath
I
13


THE KING
Gemini: His Rule on Earth
Gemini is a fine constellation in the northern winter sky. Two bright stars act as pointers to it (Rigel and Betelgeuse), making Gemini easy to locate. Gemini supposedly refers to the famous twins after whom the two bright stars are named (Castor and Pollux). Pollux is now a little brighter than Castor, although apparently this was not the case in ancient times. Pollux has an orange hue, while Castor is white. The constellation of Gemini shows up very well against its background of the Milky Way. Castor and Pollux are Latin names. The Greeks called the two bright stars Apollo and Hercules, about whom there are numerous legends. Bible students will recall that the name of the ill-fated ship that the Apostle Paul traveled on was Castor and Pollux (Acts 28:11).
The meaning of Gemini as a sign has become more obscured than most of the other signs during the course of history. It is usually pictured as a pair of young twin baby boys. In Greek mythology they are not baby boys but twin heroes displaying unparalleled heroism with the Argonauts in the contest for the Golden Fleece. They are credited with clearing the Hellespont of pirates and are thus honored as friends of sea navigators. This is why ships
115
116	God's Voice in the Stars

(like that of Paul) were named after them. Other accounts represent them as kings and saviors in the character of warrior-judges. Sometimes they are depicted as a man and a woman (as in the old Dendereh zodiac). Even if the pictorial evidence is somewhat inconsistent, the evidence of the names and their meanings is clear.
In the Coptic language Gemini was called Pi-mahi, which means The United. The Hebrew name was Thaumim, with the same meaning. A derivative of the word is used in connection with the Tabernacle, where the boards were "coupled together" (Exodus 26:24). It may also be connected with the Thummim stone which the high priest wore, meaning Perfections. The Arabs of old had a similar name, Altauman.
The name Apollo or Castor meant Ruler or Judge, and the name of the other bright star, Hercules or Pollux, meant Who Comes to Labor or Suffer. These meanings indicate that Castor and Pollux are The Ruling Judge and The Laboring Sufferer, and (from the old Coptic) that they are united into one. It will not be hard for the Christian to appreciate the twofold, united character of the coming Lord and Saviour in this sign. This twofold presentation of Christ, already seen in previous signs, is repeated again, showing us the character of the coming Christ. Other names are consistent with this. Alhena, in the foot of Pollux, means Hurt, Wounded, or Afflicted, while Mebsuta, in the leg of Castor, means Treading Underfoot. Once again we are referred to the primeval prophecy concerning the Seed of the woman, who was coming to tread underfoot the head of the enemy and to crush him (Genesis 3:15).
In our illustration, as in some of the ancient zodiacs, Castor holds a palm branch. He is thus identified with Christ as the Branch of Jehovah. There are old star names
The King (Gemini)	117
(which can no longer be positively identified) that confirm this. Algiauza means Palm Branch, and another star, Aldira, means The Seed, while a third is Propus, Branch. We do not doubt that this was the original picture. What Gemini portrays is the coming of the Lord in His dual capacity as both Ruling Prince and Saviour who suffered. It is another variation in Heaven's most beautiful melody, the sufferings and glory of the Lord Jesus Christ. "He is the One whom God exalted to His right hand as a Prince and a Saviour, to grant repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins" (Acts 5:31 NASB).

Lepus- The Enemy Trodden Underfoot

Just below Orion is a small constellation which is sometimes overlooked because of the brilliance of its neighbor. Although it has no outstanding stars, it has a recognizable shape and, being near Orion, is easy to locate. Most star atlases make Lepus a hare, which is the meaning of its Latin name (though this is quite modern). Legends claim that Orion the great hunter loved to hunt hares, and so Lepus is pictured at his feet. Just as we have seen that Orion (in the sign of Taurus) pictures far more than a celestial hunter, so it is with Lepus when the ancient names are examined.
A very old Persian planisphere shows Lepus as a snake, and this is in all probability its original meaning. It then perfectly complements Orion the Glorious Prince, who was to crush the head of the serpent. The star Rigel in Orion's raised foot, which is over the head of Lepus, means The Foot That Crushes. In his other leg is a star called Saiph, meaning Bruised. If Lepus properly pictures a snake, it fits perfectly with Orion and with the prophecy of Scripture.
118	God's Voice in the Stars

The brightest star in Lepus is Arneb (Hebrew Arnebo) and means The Enemy of Him Who Comes. This would hardly fit the picture of a small hare before a mighty hunter, but it fits perfectly as a snake, in the character of the Biblical prophecy of Genesis 3:15. Another star, Nihal (sometimes Nibal), means The Mad. One no longer identified is Sugia, The Deceiver. The witness of these names together is clear. Lepus is the enemy, "That old serpent, the devil," trodden underfoot by the Prince of Light: "He it is that shall tread down our enemies" (Psalm 60:12).

I will tread them in Mine anger,
And trample them in My fury ...
For the day of vengeance is in Mine heart,
And the year of My redeemed is come (Isaiah 63:3-4).

Canis Major- The Coming Prince of Glory
Canis Major, or the Great Dog, is one of the original forty-eight constellations, but, like others in the sign of Gemini, it has almost lost its meaning in the course of history. Today it is known as the Great Dog, and its bright star is popularly referred to as the "Dog Star." The Greeks supposed that Orion had a pair of hunting dogs and that this was one of them that attended him faithfully on his expeditions. The three stars in Orion's belt point to the socalled Dog Star, whose proper name is Sirius; it sparkles brilliantly all winter in the northern hemisphere. Sirius is worthy of particular attention because it is by far the brightest star in the whole sky. It is only nine light years away, making it one of Earth's nearer neighbors among the millions of stars. There are other bright stars in the constellation, and altogether it is a glorious sight. It would
The King (Gemini)	119

be even better appreciated if its true meaning were known.
Canis Major, along with the other dog, Canis Minor, fulfills a prophetic role which amplifies the great truths concerning the coming Christ in the sign of Gemini. The primary sign, Gemini, showed Christ in the dual role of both Prince and Saviour: coming Ruler as well as coming Redeemer. Now in the attending constellation of Canis Major we have the first of these reiterated: Christ the coming Prince of Glory. The representation of this constellation had already become distorted in Egyptian times, during which he was called Naz, The Hawk. But Naz also means Coming Swiftly Down, and it may be that this was the point of confusion between them. There is an old Persian planisphere which pictures him as a wolf, and this may have been where the Greeks got the idea of a dog. But when we consider the names of the individual stars, all doubts are quickly removed and its intended meaning
becomes clear.
Sirius is the name of the most glorious star in the sky and means The Prince. The ancient root was Sur, which became Sar in Hebrew, as used by the Prophet Isaiah when speaking of Messiah as the "Prince of Peace" (Isaiah 9:6). The same name in its feminine form is Sarah, Princess, as Abraham's wife. It is also the root of the English word "sir," which survives to the present day as a term of dignity and respect. In all probability Sirius was the name of the constellation in ancient times. Near Sirius is another star, Mirzam, with a similar meaning of Ruler. The star Adara means The Glorious, while another is called Wezea
(sometimes Wesen) and means The Bright, The Shining.
Ancient astronomical records also speak of the names of other stars in Canis Major which are no longer identifiable. One of these is an Arabic name, Alshira Aljemeniya,
120	God's Voice in the Stars
meaning Prince of the Right Hand, and refers to its identity with the right-hand figure in Gemini, with which it is associated. It will be recalled that the right-hand figure of the two is Castor, The Ruler or Judge, and this name matches that of Sirius, Prince or Ruler. Another star, Abur in Hebrew and Alhabor in Arabic, means The Mighty. Muliphen means The Leader or Chief, and another name was Aschere- Who Shall Come. Sirius has a collective witness to a Coming Prince-none other than the Lord of Glory, whose worth and work is so often extolled in the starry revelation.
Seiss, in The Gospel in the Stars, connects the Egyptian name of the constellation, Naz, with the name Sirius (Seir), which together make Naz-Seir, meaning Sent Prince. This in turn is allied to the Hebrew word netzer, one of the names for the Branch that was to come from the stem of Jesse (Isaiah 11:1). Seiss, along with others, believes there is a connection between this prophecy and the words of Matthew: "That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophets, He shall be called a Nazarene [Naz-Seir-ene[." Any connection between the city where Jesus grew up, Nazareth, the prophecy of Isaiah, and the star names probably needs fuller investigation.

Canis Minor- The Coming Redeemer

Canis Minor is supposed to be the Lesser Dog and the junior of Orion's two hounds. It is a small star group, with only two stars that are prominent. Its bright star, Procyone (just south of Gemini), makes it easy to locate. As is the case with Gemini and its other two decans, the original meaning of Canis Minor has long since been obscured.
The King (Gemini)	121

Long ago the Egyptians called it Sebak, which means The Conquering or Victorious. They showed it as a human figure with a hawk's head and a curious tail. Once again the true meaning shows up in the meanings of names rather than the pictures. The ancient names have suffered far less than have the sign pictures, which were at the mercy of each new astronomer who copies them. In the case of Canis Minor, the name that can be traced back to the earliest of times is Procyon, the name of its bright star. Procyon means Redeemer, Saviour, and it is in this name that the true meaning becomes clear.
There is a clear connection between the sign Gemini and these two attending constellations, Canis Major and Canis Minor. Gemini showed us two Persons who
represented the twofold character of the coming Messiah, as both Prince and Saviour. These same two truths are reemphasized in the attending constellations. Canis Major showed us Sirius, the glorious Prince, and now Canis Minor shows us Procyon, the exalted Redeemer and Saviour. This is confirmed by two other stars. Gomeisa means Burdened or Bearing for Others and obviously points to the saving work of Christ the Redeemer. Another star name is Alshira Alshemeliya and means The Prince of the Left Hand. This name answers to the star we noted in Canis Major, which was The Prince of the Right Hand. We are therefore reminded of the Person on the left in Gemini whom we have already seen to be the Saviour.
How perfectly these correspond in presenting the coming Messiah, and in the same terms as the Scriptures use! The twofold character of Christ as Prince and Saviour, as King and Redeemer, are a constantly repeated theme of the Bible. All this was foretold long ago in the heavens.
122	God's Voice in the Stars The Sign of Gemini
1. Gemini	The Twins
The Coming Prince and Saviour 2. Lepus	The Enemy
The Enemy Trodden Underfoot 3. Canis Major Sirius-The Prince
The Coming Prince of Glory
4. Canis Minor Procyon- The Redeemer The Coming Redeemer
14
THE PROTECTOR
Cancer: His Possessions Held Secure
The eleventh of the twelve signs to appear on the starry stage is that of Cancer. It lies midway between Gemini and Leo, making its space easy to find, even though it has not even one conspicuous star. In fact, its stars can be missed altogether if the night is not dark and the sky clear. When conditions are good, a nebulous cloud (really a cluster) can be seen in the middle, with two stars, one on either side, known as the two aselli (asses or donkeys). The nebulous cloud is named Praesepe, The Manger. Other than this,
Cancer has no clearly discernible patterns of stars.
Most planispheres show Cancer as a large crab, but this is almost certainly not the original symbol. It does not correspond with the ancient names of the stars, nor with the three decans with which it is associated (Ursa Minor, Ursa Major, and Argo). According to the Greek legend, Juno placed this crab among the signs as a reward for helping Hydra in a battle with Hercules in which the crab bit his foot and was then trodden on and killed.
We have illustrated Cancer with the symbol of an Eastern inn. Travelers with their animals could be accommodated safely as they rested on their journey. The inn is surrounded by a wall to assure the safety of people
123
126	God's Voice in the Stars

and animals inside for the night. While there is no certainty that this is the correct symbol, the names in the sign of Cancer and its constellation indicate that such a picture is far nearer the original than a crab. Cancer comes from a root word To Hold or Encircle in the Latin language, and the Greek word Karkinos is about the same. The term was chosen for the crab because of its ability to hold tightly with its large claws. What is of more importance to the seeker after the message of the constellations is the idea of holding rather than the literal symbol of the crab.
Other names in this sign are in harmony with this theme. The Egyptian zodiac of Dendereh named it Klaria, meaning Cattlefolds. The Arabs called it Alsartan, which means Who Holds or Binds. The Syriac name was Sartano, which is similar and means the same. The Hebrews had a word, Ausar (note the similarity of the syllable Sar), which means To Bind or Harness or To Hold or Keep. It is used in Genesis 49:11. All of this is consistent with the Greek Karkinos-Holding, Encircling, from which they got Crab. Some have seen a connection in the old Arabic word Khan, for Inn, Traveler's Rest, and another Arabic word, Cer (or Ker), meaning Encircling. Together they make Khan-cer, similar to Cancer, but this explanation of the origin is mostly conjecture.
The brightest star in Cancer is Tegmine, which means Holding, while another is named Acubene in Hebrew and means Sheltering or Hiding Place. Other names are Ma'alaph, Assembled Thousands, and Alhimarean, The Kids or Lambs. The cluster in the middle is called Praesepe, meaning Multitude (as we have already noted), with its two aselli above and below it. This sign has often been associated with the tribe of Issachar (Genesis 49:14).
The combined witness seems to be that of a sheltering place where people and flocks are safe and held fast on
The Protector (Cancer)	127

their way home. It is for this reason that we have shown Cancer as an inn. The ruin of the old Good Samaritan Inn on the road from Jerusalem to Jericho is a good example of this type of inn. The three decans or constellations associated with Cancer lend weight to the idea that it prophesied of the eternal safety of God's redeemed people.

Ursa Minor- The Stronghold of the Saved

Ursa Minor occupies a unique position in all the sky. It holds the central star around which all the other stars appear to revolve. The North Star, as it is called, draws the attention of navigators and surveyors all over the northern hemisphere as a fixed point outside earth to establish direction and angle. It is also called Polaris or the polestar and is perhaps the most important and most observed star in our universe.
Polaris has not always been the North Star. In ancient times another star in the constellation, Draco, was nearest the north celestial pole. It was the star Thuban, The Subtle, but due to the precession of the equinoxes, Polaris now holds that honor. It is perhaps significant and certainly interesting that the central position of the sky has been taken away from a constellation which symbolizes Satan and placed in Ursa Minor, which symbolizes the sheepfold as the stronghold of the saved, where God's people await Christ's glorious return.
Ursa Minor is widely known as the Little Bear and is paired with Ursa Major, the Great Bear. They are also known as the Big and Little Dippers, though this is very modern. Even the idea of the bears goes no further back than the Greeks. The bear symbol does not appear at all in the old zodiacs of Chaldea, Persia, Egypt, or India. Thus
128	God's Voice in the Stars

we conclude that we must look elsewhere for the original meaning. Many people have noticed that the bears in these two star groups have enormous, raised tails, which is uncharacteristic of bears. The bear idea seems to have come from a confusion of words. An old Persian word for bear is similar to the word for sheepfold, and the Greeks appear to have mistaken one word for the other, according to Bullinger.
Once again we must look at the ancient names and their meanings to find any light on the prophetic meaning which God intended from the beginning. The Greeks called this constellation Arcas or Arctos, from which we get words like arctic in English. Arcas meant Bear and is used as such in Scripture, but the root meaning is The Stronghold of the Saved. A Greek myth states that Arcas was the son of Jupiter and Calisto and that he built a city on the site of the blasted house of him who was served up as a dish to try Jupiter's divinity, and then became ruler of the Arcadians, a pastoral people living in peace and contentment in old Greece.
The peaceful pastoral scene seen in the myth is the background of this constellation. It shows us the secure sheepfold where the redeemed are gathered, waiting for the coming of Messiah. The names of the stars confirm this. Kochab means Waiting for the Coming and thus adds its witness. Alkaid, an unidentified star, means The Assembled, and another star, Alpherkadain, means The Redeemed Assembly. Another name which we have noted in several constellations is found here. It is Algedi, The Kid, and pictures the price by which the redeemed were bought. The place of this safe sheepfold is found in the name Polaris, which the Greeks called Cynosure, meaning High in Rising. The Arabs called it Alruccaba, meaning Turned or Ridden On. These point to the heavenly and
The Protector (Cancer)	129

central place where the redeemed are held safely. Abraham looked for such a place, "a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God" (Hebrews 11:10).

Ursa Major-The Assembled Flock

Ursa Major, otherwise known as the Plough or the Big Dipper, is probably the best-known constellation in the sky, and most people can identify it. It is a splendid star group and is visible all year round in the countries north of the equator. This is because it is near the celestial pole and its circular trip stays near enough so that it does not dip below the horizon. It is known particularly by its familiar seven stars, though in fact the constellation is very much larger than the seven, and has many more stars.
Star charts usually picture this constellation as a large bear, which is the meaning of the Latin name Ursa Major. Again we object to the bear, for it has no resemblance to the names of its stars, which are among the most wellknown in the sky. As noted before, the Greeks may have mistaken the Persian word Dob (Hebrew Dowb), which means Bear, for Dubeh, the brightest star, whose name means A Herd or A Flock. Be that as it may, all the names of the stars in Ursa Major consistently witness to the picture of an assembled flock. It seems clear that the original meaning had to do with a peaceful pastoral scene of a gathered flock.
The name of this constellation is found in Scripture in Job 9:9 and 38:32. The Authorized Version translates the Hebrew word ash as Arcturas. The more modern translations have recognized that it refers to Ursa Major, and so they translate it The Bear, though the word in Hebrew does not have the meaning of bear. It comes from a root
130	God's Voice in the Stars

word meaning To Hasten or Assemble Together (as sheep in a fold). The Arab word Alnaish is a kindred word and also means The Assembled Together. The old Jewish commentators interpreted ash as the seven stars of the constellation.
The names of the stars also highlight this theme. Dubhe, the brightest, is A Herd or A Flock, as we have seen. Merak is another word for Flock in Hebrew and means Purchased in Arabic. Phad means Guarded or Numbered (as a flock), and Megrez means Separated (as a flock in a fold). Alioth is She Goat (like another star in Auriga), and the double star Mizar means Small, while its twin is Alcor, The Lamb. Alcaid means The Assembled and is also called Benet Naish, Daughters of the Assembly.
There are at least seven other star names which are no longer identifiable with their stars, and all have the same thought of the assembling of the once-scattered flock. Not one discordant note spoils the harmony of the meaning of
Ursa Major. It shows us the people of God, long-scattered but gathered together in the last days for the glory and wonder of Messiah's coming. Is this not what the prophets foretold?

For thus says the Lord GOD, "Behold, I Myself will search for My sheep and seek them out....
"And will deliver them from all the places to which they were scattered on a cloudy and gloomy day.
"And I will bring them out from the peoples and gather them from the countries and bring them to their own land....
I will feed them in a good pasture ....
I will feed My flock and I will lead them to rest," declares the Lord GOD.
"I will seek the lost, bring back the scattered, bind up
The Protector (Cancer)	131
the broken, and strengthen the sick; but the fat and the strong I will destroy.
I will feed them with judgment" (Ezekiel 34:11-16 NASB).

Argo- Travelers Safely Home

Argo is the famous ship which carried Jason and his companions in their search for the Golden Fleece. Some people believe that there really was such a journey about which Homer sang some ten centuries before Christ. Others think that the origin of both the name and the story is connected with the ark of Noah and its journey. It is interesting to note that the name Jason is the GraecoJudean equivalent of Joshua or Jesus, and that he is the one who recovered the lost treasure from the great serpent who guarded it. Possibly some light of truth shines through the mists of antiquity, though we cannot be sure
about the meaning.
Aratus, the Greek poet who wrote so much of the signs in the sky hundreds of years before Christ, sings of this ship entering harbor:

Stern foremost hauled; no mark of onward speeding ship, Sternward she comes as vessels do, When sailors turn the helm
On entering harbor: all the oars backwater, And gliding backward to an anchor comes.

The name Argo means A Company of Travelers, and, like the other constellations in the sign of Cancer, is a prophetic picture of the safe arrival of God's people back to the land of blessing, where the "redeemed of the Lord shall return and come with singing unto Zion." The constellation is an immense star group, but lies mostly
132	God's Voice in the Stars

below the horizon to observers in the northern countries. It has a number of bright stars, including the secondbrightest star visible from earth. Modern astronomers have divided it into three parts because of its size.
Canopus, its leading star, means The Possession of Him Who Comes, while Tureis means Possession (in hand). Another star is Soheil, which means The Desired. It reminds us of the line in Psalm 107:30, "So He bringeth them unto their desired haven." No longer identifiable are Asmidiska, meaning The Travelers Released, and Sephina, Abundance. Again we are confronted with a united theme in harmony with everything we have noted in the four constellations of this sign.
Isaiah the prophet spoke of this gathering in chapter 60:

Lift up your eyes round about, and see;
They all gather together, they come to you. Your sons will come from afar,
And your daughters will be carried in the arms. Then you will see and be radiant, And your heart will thrill and rejoice;
Because the abundance of the sea will be turned to you, The wealth of the nations will come to you .... And the ships of Tarshish will come first, To bring your sons from afar, Their silver and their gold with them.
(Isaiah 60:4-5,9 NASB)

Rest will be the inheritance of the people of God when they are back in their own land. The signs in the sky agree with the revelation of Holy Scripture.
The Protector (Cancer)	133 The Sign of Cancer
1. Cancer	The Secure Resting Place
The Redeemed Held Safe
2. Ursa Minor	The Sheepfold
The Stronghold of the Saved
3. Ursa Major	The Flock
The Assembled Flock
4. Argo	The Ship in Harbor
Travelers Safely Home
15
THE VICTOR
Leo: His Enemies Destroyed
On a clear spring evening the southern aspect of the sky is dominated by the sign of Leo. Two of the stars in Ursa Major (Megrez and Phad) act as pointers to Leo, although once identified, Leo will hardly need such assistance a second time. Leo is, of course, a lion and perhaps comes the nearest of any of the signs of the zodiac to looking like what it represents. The front part of the lion is commonly known as The Sickle and is shaped like one. The star on the bottom of the handle is the brightest star in Leo, called Regulus or sometimes Cor Leonis (heart of the lion).
The great drama of the universe started with the sign of Virgo, and in Leo we reach the last scene of the last act. In the zodiac we have come full circle, for the tail of the Lion touches the head of Virgo, the correct place to start and end in the interpretation of the twelve signs. This fact was, we believe, the chief purpose of the great Sphinx of Egypt, which has the head of a woman and the tail of a lion. We have pointed out previously that the beginning point of prophecy in the first book of the Bible concerns the woman and her Seed, which would destroy the seed of the serpent. The sign of Virgo clearly showed this. The ending point in Biblical prophecy, in the last book of Scripture,
135
136	God's Voice in the Stars

describes the Seed of the woman as "the Lion of the tribe of Judah ... [who] has prevailed" (Revelation 5:5). Thus the start and finish of the zodiac coincide with the start and finish of the prophetic story of the Lord Jesus Christ as revealed in the written Word.
No doubt whatever exists about the meaning of Leo. Long before the Greeks invented their myths about the exploits of Hercules, Leo was a well-known astronomical sign. Without exception, the oldest zodiacs picture Leo as a lion. Not only is he a lion, but a magnificent lion killing
and tearing his prey. In the famous zodiac of Dendereh, Leo is treading down the great serpent, Hydra, his powerful claws having wounded the head of the serpent.
In this sign we see for the fourth time the symbolism of Christ in triumph crushing the head of His enemy. It was seen in the sign of Scorpio, where Ophiushus the mighty man holds his foot over the head of Scorpio the deadly enemy, about to crush him. Again the triumphant victor, Hercules, was seen crunching, with his foot, the head of the terrible dragon, Draco. Again in the sign of Taurus, we noted Orion the great hunter with his foot on the head of Lepus the enemy. Now, finally, the truth is repeated in this last sign, Leo. The significance of this in connection with Biblical prophecy can hardly be missed.
The previous sign, Cancer, pictured the final rest and homecoming of the redeemed. Leo completes the story by showing the final end of the enemy. The word Knem appears in hieroglyphics under Leo in the zodiac of Dendereh. The word means Who Conquers and aptly tells of the triumph of the true Leo of the book of Revelation. The old Hebrews called this sign Arieh, which is one of six words in Hebrew meaning Lion. Interestingly enough, it is the one word which refers to a lion hunting down its prey (Nahum 2:12; 2 Samuel 17:10). The Syriac name was
The Victor (Leo)	137

Aryo (comparable to Arieh in both pronunciation and meaning), which is translated The Rending Lion.
The individual names for stars are also instructive. Regulus, the first-magnitude star, means Treading Underfoot, like another star in Orion with a similar name (Rigel). The next-brightest star is Denebola, which means The Judge Who Comes. The star Algiebha has the meaning The Exaltation-referring, of course, to the Lion. Another star in the hindquarter is Zozma, which means Shining Forth. The star in his head, called Minchar Alasad, means The Tearing of the Lion, while another unidentified star is called Aldafera, which means Enemy Put Down.
All of these names consistently bear witness of Him who is the Lion of the tribe of Judah, who is now exalted and will soon rise up for judgment. It is in this light that the Lion of Judah is seen in the last book of Scripture. The lion has always been the symbol of the tribe of Judah and was on the standard of that tribe. When Jacob the patriarch was dying he pronounced his blessing on Judah with these words:
Your hand shall be on the neck of your enemies .... Judah is a lion's whelp;
From the prey, my son, you have gone up. He couches, he lies down as a lion, And as a lion, who dares rouse him up?
(Genesis 49:8-9 NASB)

Balaam later prophesied:

He shall devour the nations who are his adversaries, And shall crush their bones in pieces, And shatter ... his arrows. He couches, he lies down as a lion,
138	God's Voice in the Stars
And as a lion, who dares rouse him? (Numbers 24:8-9 NASB)

Isaiah spoke of the Lord in this way:

He shall cry, yea, roar;
He shall prevail against His enemies (Isaiah 42:13).

The elder in heaven said for the Apostle John's comfort, "The Lion of the tribe of Judah . . . hath prevailed" (Revelation 5:5). Thus there is agreement between the stellar revelation and the written revelation, as will be further developed in the constellations which accompany Leo.
Hydra-The Old Serpent Destroyed

Hydra is the largest separate constellation in the sky, stretching more than 100 degrees across the sky below the constellations of Cancer, Leo, and Virgo. It is singularly lacking in bright stars except for one named Alphard, which shines in lonely splendor in the front part of the body of the snake. Because there is no other significant star nearby, it is sometimes called the Solitary One. This star can easily be found by extending a line drawn through the two bright stars in Gemini, Castor and Pollux.
Hydra was supposed to have been a female snake, the mother of all evil. In the Greek myths it had a hundred heads, and if one were lopped off, two would grow in its place. The name Hydra means The Abhorred, and without doubt it depicts the evil one, through whom sin came into the world and by whom sin multiplies.
But Hydra as a symbol of the evil one has at last reached his end. The conquering Lion pounces on him, and this marks the end of the reign of sin and death and the end of
The Victor (Leo)	139

rebellion against the authority of God. The bright star Alphard means The Excluded or Put Out of the Way. The reference is to the casting out from Heaven and earth of that old serpent the devil, and his eternal destruction in the lake of fire: "The devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone . . . and shall be tormented day and night for ever and ever" (Revelation 20:10).
Crater-The Wrath of God Poured Out
on The Serpent

As a constellation, Crater is small and faint, so much so that the popular modern astronomer, Patrick Moore, writes that it is surprising to find that it is one of the original groups. The answer to this is that the forty-eight original constellations were not selected for their brilliance or size, nor were they chosen to divide up the sky (as there are a number of undesignated areas), but rather they were chosen for what they depicted as signs. That is an important part of the story of the prophetic signs in the sky. Crater lies below the hind feet of Leo and seems to be resting on the body of the snake, Hydra. Indeed, the two stars at the bottom of the cup are also part of the body of the snake, making the two inseparable.
In classical times the Greeks supposed that Crater was the cup of the wine-god, Bacchus; it was therefore associated with joy and gladness. In truth the very opposite is the case. Instead of Crater being a cup of joy, it is the cup of God's indignation (Revelation 14:10). It is the cup of the wine of the fierceness of His wrath (Revelation 16:19). It is the final and dreadful cup of wrath, reserved for the devil and his angels. A thousand years before the vision ofJohn on the Isle of Patmos, the Psalmist declared:
140	God's Voice in the Stars

God is the judge: He putteth down one, and setteth up another. For in the hand of the LORD there is a cup, and the wine is red; it is full of mixture; and He poureth out of the same: but the dregs thereof, all the wicked of the earth shall wring out and drink (Psalm 75:7-8).
Upon the wicked He shall rain snares, fire and brimstone, and a horrible tempest: this shall be the portion of their cup (Psalm 11:6).


Corvus-The Devouring of the Old Serpent

Near to Crater and much more conspicuous is a small rectangle of stars called Corvus. It can easily be located near to Spica, the first-magnitude star in Virgo. Mythology gives this bird a place in the sky because of its work in watching the activities of Coronis and reporting back to her lover, Apollo. Corvus is a raven, a scavenger bird of prey. Ravens are powerful birds, two feet in length, with a massive, three-inch beak that tears flesh from dead and dying animals on which they feed. The raven that Noah released from the ark did not return because there was much dead flesh on which to feed.
The raven, Corvus, pictures for us the last act in the conflict of the ages. The enemy of God and men is finally defeated, torn to pieces and devoured. Corvus is astride the monster serpent, Hydra, clutching him with his claws and tearing at his flesh with his beak. This scene is a prophecy of the final judgment. When that day of terrible judgment comes, an angel stands in the sun calling with a mighty voice to all the fowls and birds of prey to come and feast themselves on the flesh of the enemy (Revelation 19:17-18). In this same imagery David said to Goliath, "I will smite thee and take thy head from thee, and I will give the carcasses of the host of the Philistines this day
The Victor (Leo)	141

unto the fowls of the air" (1 Samuel 17:46).
Names found in Corvus give witness to its meaning. Alchibar is from the Hebrew Chiba, which means Accursed. Algoreb means simply Raven. Two others not positively identified have to do with the activity of the raven. Minchar Algoreb means The Raven Tearing to Pieces, and Minchar Alsugia means The Deceiver Torn to Pieces. Here the prophetic story written in the sky so long ago comes to a close. The Redeemer has triumphed, the redeemed are safe home, and the enemy is destroyed. While the fuller and more explicit revelation of the written Word is available to all today, making the need for the stellar revelation no longer necessary, we can nevertheless lift our hearts in praise for every means by which God has chosen to glorify His Beloved Son. Without doubt, "The heavens declare the glory of God" (Psalm 19:1).

The Sign of Leo

1. Leo	The Lion
The Triumph of the Redeemer
2. Hydra	The Serpent
The Old Serpent Destroyed
3. Crater	The Cup
The Wrath of God Poured Out on the Serpent
4. Corvus	The Raven
The Devouring of the Old Serpent
Bibliography	143
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Bullinger, E.W. Witness of the Stars. Grand Rapids,
Michigan: Kregel, 1893, 1967.
Carr-Harris, Bertha. The Hieroglyphics of the Heavens.
Toronto: Armac Press, 1933.
Morris, Henry M. Many Infallible Proofs. San Diego,
California: Creation-Life Publishers, 1974.
Rolleston, Frances. Mazzaroth or The Constellations.
Keswick, England, 1863.
Seiss, Joseph A. The Gospel in the Stars. Castle Press,
1884; Grand Rapids, Michigan: Kregel, 1979. Spenser, Duane E. Mazzaroth. San Antonio, Texas: Word
of Grace, 1972.
