
ORION
The Mighty One, with his foot about to crush
the head of the enemy (Genesis 3:15)
GOD'S VOICE

Ifl THE STARS
ZODIAC SIGNS AND BIBLE TRUTH
KENNETH C. FLEMING
"The heavens declare the glory of God,
and the firmament showeth His handiwork."
Psalm 19:1
LOIZEAUX BROTHERS
Neptune, New Jersey
FIRST EDITION, APRIL 1981 SECOND PRINTING, JULY 1982
Except where otherwise indicated, Scripture quotations in this book are taken from the King James Version of the Bible.
Verses marked NASB are taken from the New American Standard Bible, The Lockman Foundation 1960, 1962, 1963, 1968, 1971, 1972, 1973, 1975. Used by permission.
Copyright © 1981, by LOIZEAUX BROTHERS, Inc.
A Nonprofit Organization Devoted to the Lord's Work
andto the Spreadof His Truth
Library of Congress Cataloging in Publication Data

Fleming, Kenneth Charles, 1927God's voice in the stars.

Bibliography: p. 143
1. Bible and astrology. 2. Zodiac. I. Title. BF1721.F55	220.8'13352	80-27700 ISBN 0-87213-175-0
PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
CONTENTS
Illustrations	6
Foreword 7 1. God's Purpose in the Stars 9 2. The Glory of God in the Heavens 17 3. The Twelve Signs 23 4. The Incarnate Son (Virgo) 35 5. The Redeemer (Libra) 45 6. The Sufferer (Scorpio) 53 7. The Conqueror (Sagittarius) 61 8. The Sacrifice (Capricornus) 71 9. The Living Water (Aquarius)	79
10. The Liberator (Pisces)	87
11. The Crowned Lamb (Aries)	95
12. The Judge (Taurus)	105
13. The King (Gemini)	115
14. The Protector (Cancer)	123
15. The Victor (Leo)	135
Bibliography	143
ILLUSTRATIONS


Orion Frontispiece Star Map - Pisces to Leo 24 Star Map - Virgo to Aquarius 25 The Sign Virgo and Its Decans 34 The Sign Libra and Its Decans 44 The Sign Scorpio and Its Decans 52 The Sign Sagittarius and Its Decans 60 The Sign Capricorn and Its Decans 70 The Sign Aquarius and Its Decans 78 The Sign Pisces and Its Decans 86 The Sign Aries and Its Decans 94 The Sign Taurus and Its Decans 104 The Sign Gemini and Its Decans 114 The Sign Cancer and Two of Its Decans 124 The Sign Cancer and One of Its Decans 125 The Sign Leo and Its Decans 134 The Twelve Signs of the Zodiac as They Appear
From Earth, and Composite Picture of the
Night Sky	Pullout Chart inside back cover
FOREWORD
"The heavens declare the glory of God." With these words begins the magnificent nineteenth psalm. What did David know of the heavens and how they express the glory of God? He knew nothing of the immensity of space which modern science has discovered; light years, pulsars, and super novae were completely unknown in his day. But there were astronomical facts which David knew, facts with which many people today are unfamiliar.
David knew that God created the stars (Genesis 1:1419). He also understood that it was God, not chance, who set them in their specific places (Psalm 8:3). Even more important, he knew that God gave names to the stars (Psalm 147:4; Isaiah 40:26). David, like most of his contemporaries, also knew the meanings of the names of the stars. In his native language of Hebrew, the names of the stars were terms commonly used in the Messianic prophecies and aspirations of God's ancient people. David could point to the well-known bright stars of the sky and meditate on their significance. Spica means The Branch. Arcturus means He Comes. Pollux means Who Comes to Suffer. Antares means The Wounded. Sirius means The Prince. Elnath means Slain. Procyon means The Redeemer. Vega means He Shall Be Exalted.
Not only did David know that the names of individual stars had meanings, but he also knew that the stars (plural) had a divine purpose: "They shall be for signs, and for seasons, and for days, and years" (Genesis 1:14). The stars were to be for signs to indicate happenings. I am convinced that these "signs" comprised a pictorial presen
7
8	God's Voice in the Stars

tation of what God was going to do in history, especially concerning the suffering and glory of the coming Saviour. David knew, like Job, that God caused the twelve signs to appear in their regular order during the course of a year (Job 38:31-32 margin). The first sign is that of Virgo, which spoke of the coming Seed of the woman, who would crush the head of the serpent (Genesis 3:15). The prophetic revelation continued through all the other signs, depicting the atonement, the suffering Redeemer, the Messiah coming to rule, and the final overthrow of the serpent-enemy. The final sign is Leo, which speaks of Christ as the Lion of the tribe of Judah which has prevailed. The prophecy in the signs of the heavens follows the same order as that in the Word of God. David knew this and exulted, "The heavens declare the glory of God!"
This book is a popular-style presentation of the ancient sign-language of the heavens, which depicted the great facts of the gospel before writing was in common use. The pseudoscience of astrology is nothing more than a cleverly disguised satanic corruption of the pure story of the coming Redeemer. I am fully aware that the Scriptures contain the full and final revelation of God for man today. However, there is some encouragement for the believer who discovers that the same Biblical message is to be seen in the signs in the sky. This book can also provide helpful insights for people who have been caught in the web of astrology.
My good friend Brian Andrews, of Durban, South Africa, willingly undertook the designing and production of the graphic art. His careful research and ability have contributed greatly to the usefulness of this material. To him I am deeply grateful.
KENNETH C. FLEMING
1
GOD'S PURPOSE IN THE STARS
On a clear, moonless night the stars overhead are a wonderful sight. If the weather is warm, we can easily become engulfed in the awesome spectacle. The overwhelming variety, the mind-boggling distances, and the intriguing patterns soon capture our imagination. Only the cool night wind or the reminder from the back of the neck that we are not accustomed to looking up for so long will bring us back to earth sooner than we might like.
David looked at a similar sight three thousand years ago and proclaimed, "When I consider Thy heavens, the work of Thy fingers, the moon and the stars, which Thou hast ordained; what is man, that Thou dost take thought of him?" (Psalm 8:3-4) Even without the help of modern science to speak of light years and multiplied universes, pulsars and spiral nebulas, David was struck by the wonder of the night sky and man's comparative smallness to it. He was thrilled by the thought that amid such immensity God considered mere man as important.
Constellations (apparent configurations formed by groups of stars) have been recognized by astronomers from very ancient times. They are still used today, virtually unchanged, to identify specific areas of the sky in the same way that cartographers identify areas of a state on a map. Some of these constellations are well known, and people
9

10	God's Voice in the Stars

get pleasure from recognizing them. The Big Dipper (known as the Plough in Great Britain) is easily seen in the northern hemisphere and delights its viewers, even as the Southern Cross delights people in the southern hemisphere. Many constellations, such as Orion, are known and observed from both hemispheres during part of the year.
Going back another three millenniums before David, we imagine a scene that was no doubt repeated in similar form on a thousand starry evenings.
Father and son are walking in the dying light of an April evening. The feel of spring is in the air as swallows dart through the dusk accompanied by the sweet song of the nightingale hidden in a tree. In the fading light the evening star announces the great nightly spectacular produced by the Creator on the stage of the universe. First a dozen, then a hundred, and finally about two thousand actors appear on the slowly revolving stage.
Enos looks in wide-eyed wonder at this universe of lights. He is as speechless as the stars upon which he gazes. In time his father points to a rectangle of stars in the southwest sky, the brightest of all the constellations in the heavens.
"Look carefully at that," Seth says to his firstborn son. "It is one of the prophetic signs that God put in the heavens to help us understand what is to happen in the future. It pictures a part of the most wonderful story in the world. God Himself told the story to your grandfather, and then illustrated it in the night sky. In this way we can easily remember it and pass it on to our children."
Seth continues while Enos listens intently. "The group of stars in that rectangle is called Orion, which means Coming As Light. Orion is one of several pictures in the heavens which speak of a mighty Person who is to come to
God's Purpose in the Stars	11

earth, who will triumph over the great enemy of mankind, who will take away sin and its disastrous effects, and who will bring in blessing and righteousness. God promised your grandparents, after cursing the world ruined by sin, that there was to come a descendant called `the seed of a woman' who will crush the head of the Serpent.
"Orion is to remind us of that coming glorious Prince of Light. In one hand He holds a great club and in the other hand the skin of a slain lion. This shows His victory over
the `roaring lion,' who is Satan. At the feet of mighty Prince Orion is the serpent. One foot of the Prince is raised to crush its head. The bright star that marks that foot is called Rigel, which means The Foot That Crushes. The star in the other foot is Saiph, which means Bruised, the very word that God used in speaking to the Serpent: `You shall bruise Him [the seed] on the heel.' "
Now the attention of Enos is drawn to the bright star in the shoulder of the figure. "The name of that one," Seth continues, "is Betelgeuse, which means The Coming of the Branch, while the name of the star in the other shoulder, Bellatrix, means Swiftly Destroying. Al Nitak, the right-hand star in his belt, means The Wounded. What a prophecy, my son, of the triumphant Prince, wounded but coming in power and great glory to crush the enemy of our souls!"
Enos would have listened to more of the story that night, but the rest would have to wait.
What Seth probably told his son about the constellation Orion that evening was just a small part of a prophetic story that God placed overhead so that the ancients might better know the truth of the coming Redeemer. It was particularly important during the two thousand years of human history before writing became widely used for the preservation of truth. (As writing became the standard
12	God's Voice in the Stars

medium of communication, the importance of the constellation signs dwindled.)
Unfortunately, many of these stories have been twisted by Babylonian astrologers, and expanded by Greeks into fantastic myths. However, the basic core of the facts from the constellations is essentially the same wherever they are found in the world. The Hebrews, the Aztecs, the Babylonians, the Norsemen, the Egyptians, and the Chinese all recognize the same constellations (with essentially the same meanings) and the same names of the stars (also with the same meanings). Underneath the pile of myth, corruption, and idolatry emerges the same basic pattern. From this similarity some scholars have reasoned that Judaism and Christianity developed from the "original religions," but actually the truth is just the opposite: the heathen religions are a perversion of the original, which came from God in pure form.

Constellations and the Bible

Scripture is not silent on the subject of the stars and their relationship to the gospel. Even Orion, the constellation just considered, is mentioned twice in the Bible; but who would guess that it is a prophetic illustration of Christ the coming Prince, coming in glory to judge and to rule? A great deal of what the sky foretells about the future has already come to pass. However, there remains much that is yet to be fulfilled, and the stellar prophets still utter their silent message every night. But let us go back to the beginning, as God has given us knowledge through His written Word, and examine the evidence.
1. God created the stars (Genesis 1:16). "And God made two great lights; the greater light to govern the day, and the lesser light to govern the night: He made the stars
God's Purpose in the Stars	13

also." What a witness to the greatness of our God that the creation and placing of the millions of stars should be explained in five short words! Man has not yet discovered how God made them. Scripture only tells us that "by wisdom [He] made the heavens" (Psalm 136:5).
2. God set the stars in their places (Psalm 8:3). "When I consider Thy heavens, the work of Thy fingers, the moon and the stars, which Thou hast ordained [literally, set or appointed]." The stars were not scattered without order across the heavens as the result of a gigantic geothermal explosion, but were set on predetermined courses through space by the hand of Almighty God. They are where they
are because He placed them there.
3. God named the stars (Psalm 147:4). The Psalmist compared the God who numbers and names the stars with the God of sympathy, whose understanding is infinite. Then he goes on to say of the stars, "He gives names to all of them." The Prophet Isaiah reminds us of the same truth: "Lift up your eyes on high and see who has created these stars, the One who leads forth their host by number, He calls them all by name; because of the greatness of His might and the strength of His power, not one of them is missing" (Isaiah 40:26 NASB).
This Biblical fact that God named the stars is remarkable. He left the naming of animals to man, but He Himself gave meaningful names to the stars. These names were important to God because of their prophetic significance. In the middle of the last century a scholar of ancient classics and the history of language was struck by Psalm 147:4. Subsequently she spent much of the rest of her life delving into the root meanings of the names of the stars in many ancient languages. This scholar, Frances Rolleston, published a work in 1863 entitled Mazzaroth, in which she traced the meanings of the stars and the signs
14	God's Voice in the Stars

of the zodiac.
Her work was popularized byJ.A. Seiss in his book, The Gospel in the Stars (1884), and by E.W. Bullinger's work, The Fitness of the Stars (1893), which was published in Britain. Rolleston discovered many roots of a primeval language, which has survived the changes of history, and are still apparent in ancient and even some modern languages. She found that similar words in different languages expressed the same basic idea, and she assumed that they came from a single source. Such words were most often found in the names of stars and constellations.
For example, the brightest star in the sky is Sirius (in Canis Major). The word came from the ancient root sur ("a prince"). The Egyptian osiris, the Hebrew sirai ("princess" -the same name as Sarai), the Etruscan aesar, and even the Indian aswara all come from the same root. We still use the word sir in English (as well as many other languages) as a term of dignity and respect. In this way Miss Rolleston traced the names of over a hundred stars and found in them the great prophetic story of Biblical redemption.
4. God used the stars for prophetic revelation (Genesis 1:14). "Let them be for signs and for seasons and for days and years. " A little reflection on these words will help us to understand some remarkable truths. The two sets or pairs in this verse explain God's double purpose for the heavens. "Days and years" clearly denotes the use of astronomical bodies for measuring time. God ordained that years, months, and days should be determined by astronomical means.
But of more interest to us is the other use of the stellar heavens: "for signs and for seasons." According to Keil and Delitzsch the Hebrew root for "signs" is avah (a mark). (This is the word that is used for the signs that
God's Purpose in the Stars	15

Moses performed before Pharaoh-Exodus 4:9,17.) The changing of a rod into a snake was a sign to Pharaoh that Moses was God's man speaking God's message. The sign was a mark of something other than itself. In the same way the signs in the sky are marks of God's message to man.
The word seasons (Hebrew moed) means something fixed or appointed. This word is never used in Scripture of a season of the year such as summer (a different word is always used). Moed indicates an appointed or fixed time, such as the time God had appointed for Abraham and Sara to have a son (Genesis 17:21; 18:14). The feasts of Jehovah in Leviticus are moedim, the plural of moed, and were appointed times when Israel would honor God in specific ways.
"Signs and seasons" were therefore ordained by God to indicate happenings and the periods of time pertaining to them. God designed the stars with the purpose of using them prophetically to signify specific historical incidents at chosen times which would come to pass as the plan of
salvation was unfolded.
There is nothing in the patterns of the stars themselves to indicate the meanings attached to them; the meanings were revealed first and were then associated with the groups of stars. For example, we would not readily see in the constellation Virgo the figure of a woman, but having been told that those particular stars are the sign of a woman, the association can easily be made. I make this point now to avoid the reader's disappointment in not being able to see visual pictures in the pattern of the stars.
In road signs we are instructed that a white bar on a round red background means "No Entry. " But we need to be told that first, since we would not deduce it from the sign. The same principle is true in regard to the signs in the sky.
16	God's Voice in the Stars
The Faithful Fitness in the Sky

The grand truth is that God made the stars for a witness to mankind of a coming Redeemer who would save fallen man from the clutches of the enemy, destroy the enemy and his power, and finally establish a kingdom of righteousness and light. We shall show in the succeeding chapters that, as stated so beautifully in Psalm 89:37, God's witness in the sky is faithful.
2
THE GLORY OF GOD IN THE HEAVENS
In the previous chapter we pointed out some significant truths from the Bible that indicate a relationship between the constellations of stars and God's early prophetic revelation of the gospel to man. Long before written records were in use, the prophetic outline of the great plan of redemption was signified in the star groups and in the names of individual stars. The Bible not only clearly states that God created the stars and set them in their places, but it also tells us that He gave them their names (Psalm 147:4). The meanings of these names have great significance, as do the meanings of all names in Scripture. Today we commonly use the Latin names of the stars, and in many of these Latin words the original meaning has become obscured. Nevertheless, a great many of the original meanings have been preserved, as comparison with ancient languages will confirm.
We also noted that God's purpose in the placing and naming of the stars is indicated in the Bible. They were to be for "signs and for seasons" (Genesis 1:14). The signs were to indicate prophetic events, and the seasons were to indicate the times pertaining to the signs. Thus the great prophetic events in the eternal plan of God were foretold. These events had to do with the great drama of redemp
17
18	God's Voice in the Stars

tion which was to be presented on the stage of planet Earth by God Himself.
By means of these star-signs man was to be continually reminded that what God promised in the hearing of our first parents was certainly going to come to pass. The coming Seed of the woman was ultimately to triumph over the serpent (Genesis 3:15). The havoc brought about by the introduction of sin into the world was to be reversed and man was to be delivered from his bondage by the promised Redeemer. When He came He would bring about reconciliation between man and God, though the Redeemer Himself was to be wounded in the process. This is the heart of the story that is written among the stars, incredible as it may seem.
The Heavens Declare the Glory of God

Psalm 19 is one of the best-known of all Psalms. It is simultaneously easily understood and profoundly deep. It is instructive as well as emotive; that is, it touches the mind as well as the heart. Thoughtful readers will see at once that the Psalm is divided into two distinct parts. The first part (verses 1-6) deals with the heavens, and the second part (verses 7-14) deals with the Word of God. The abruptness of the transition has made some commentators suggest that the Psalm is a composite of two separate fragments. However, this is hardly the case, for the two parts harmonize perfectly with the theme: the twofold revelation of God to man. Verses 1-6 describe the revelation in the starry heavens, and verses 7-14 describe the revelation in the written Word of God.
The first six verses, having to do with the heavens, are the revelation of the Creator God (Hebrew El). The last eight verses are the revelation of the Covenant God
The Glory of God in the Heavens	19

(Hebrew Yahweh). Compare the God of verse 1 (El) with the LORD of verses 7, 8, 9, and 14 (Yahweh). The first part speaks of a universal message to all men, while the second part speaks of an individual message to every human being.
The Psalm begins with the grand stanza, "The heavens declare the glory of God." Surely the glory mentioned here refers to more than the awesome grandeur displayed in the night sky by the Creator. That grandeur is called "His handiwork" and is mentioned in the other half of the couplet of verse one. His creative excellence is seen and appreciated by millions as they consider the heavens, but most of these same people fail to appreciate the "glory of God" that is also told out by the heavenly bodies. The fullness of the glory of God cannot be understood apart from God's well-beloved Son. He alone is "the brightness of His glory" (its outbeaming or radiance) (Hebrews 1:3). The Apostle Paul spoke of the "glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ" (2 Corinthians 4:6) and that "He is the image and glory of God" (1 Corinthians 11:7). The disciples saw when the eternal Word became flesh, and John declared, "We beheld His glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth" (John 1:14). God's glory is fully known only through His Son.
Do the heavens tell out the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ? The answer is that they do. By what means do they display His excellencies? The heavens reveal much about the Person and work of the Lord Jesus Christ by means of the prophetic signs in them. Psalm 19 itself goes on to say that the starry heavens not only contain a revelation from God, but that they are constantly telling their message to man. They reveal knowledge, and their testimony is universally heard, yet without a spoken word. All this indicates far more than simply the wonder of the stars as
20	God's Voice in the Stars

created objects.
It is most significant that the Apostle Paul quotes this very Psalm in his Letter to the Romans to show that the message of the heavens is the message of salvation by faith in Christ. The quotation is in the middle of the great prophetic section of Romans (9-11). These chapters explain the relationship of God's ancient people to the gospel of righteousness by faith, which gospel is the theme of the whole book of Romans. Chapter 10 states that, contrary to Jewish thinking, righteousness by faith was revealed in Old Testament times, but it had not been believed. To prove this, Paul quotes from two Old Testament prophets, Joel and Isaiah. Both these prophets affirm that faith was the key to obtaining God's righteousness (Romans 10:13-16). Paul's conclusion is stated in verse 17: "So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God." The point is that belief in the revelation of God brings salvation.
The apostle then goes on to argue with a question: "Have they not heard?" The obvious answer is that they did hear. If they heard the message, how did they hear it? It is at this point that Paul uses Psalm 19 to explain: "Their sound went into all the earth, and their words to the end of the world" (Romans 10:18 quoted from Psalm 19:4). By using Psalm 19, whose subject is the starry heavens, Paul proved that the gospel was revealed to the ancient Hebrew people and for that matter the whole ancient world. The conclusion is that what is taught in Romans was first revealed in the heavens. Therefore we should not be surprised to find the gospel in the stars.
It is in the names of the stars and constellations that the gospel first becomes apparent. The ancient meanings of these names will be recognized by every Bible student as being strikingly similar to the written revelation regarding
The Glory of God in the Heavens	21
a coming Redeemer who would suffer because of sin, but ultimately triumph over it and save fallen man.
The accompanying chart shows the names and meanings of the twenty-four brightest stars in the sky and the constellations in which they are to be found.
The Twenty-Four Brightest Stars as Seen from Earth
(In Order of Brightness)
STAR	CONSTELLATION	MEANING	REFERENCE
1. Sirius	Canis Major	Prince	Isaiah 9:6
2. Canopus	Argo	The Possession of Him Who Comes	Isaiah 60:4-9
3- Toliman	Centaurus	The Heretofore and the Hereafter	Revelation 1:8
4. Vega	Lyra	He Shall Be Exalted	Isaiah 52:13
5. Capella	Auriga	She Goat	Ezekiel 37:22-24
6. Arcturus	Boozes	He Comes	Psalm 96:13
7. Rigel	Orion	The Foot That Crushes	Genesis 3:15
8. Procyon	Canis Minor	The Redeemer	Isaiah 59:19-20 Isaiah 49:24-26
9. Achernar	Eridanus	After Part of the River (of Fire)	2 Thessalonians 1:7-8 Nahum 1:5-6 
10. Altair	Aquila	The Wounded	Psalm 38:2,10
Isaiah 53:5	
11. Agena	Centaurus	Unknown
12. A-Crux	Southern Cross Unknown
13. Betelgeuse Orion	The Coming of the Branch	Isaiah 4:2
 	Malachi 3:1-2 
14. Aldeberan Taurus	The Governor	Psalm 22:28
 	Zechariah 9:7 
15. Pollux	Gemini	He Who Comes to Suffer	1 Peter 1:11
 	Psalm 22	
16. Spica	Virgo	The Branch	Zechariah 3:8
 	Zechariah 6:12
22	God's Voice in the Stars
The Twenty-Four Brightest Stars as Seen from Earth
(In Order of Brightness)
STAR	CONSTELLATION	MEANING	REFERENCE
17. Antares	Scorpio	Wounding	Isaiah 53:5
 	Zechariah 13:6
18. Fomalhaut Pisces Australis	Mouth of the Fish
19. Deneb	Cygnus	TheJudge	Psalm 9:8
20. Regulus	Leo	Treading Underfoot	Isaiah 63:3
 	Genesis 3:15 
21. B-Crux	Southern Cross	Unknown
22. Castor	Gemini	RulerorJudge	Acts 7:27,35
Deut.18:15	
23. Alioth	Ursa Major	Goat or Sin Offering	Leviticus
16:15,27
24. Bellatrix	Orion	Swiftly Destroying	Ezekiel 28:16
Consider the meanings of the names of these wellknown stars in the light of prophetic Scripture revelation. It is not coincidence that many of these names bear close resemblance to the terms and figures in Scripture. Succeeding chapters will comment on these meanings. Where original meanings have been lost in history, they are usually connected with stars in the southern sky, where northern observers would not observe them.
3
THE TWELVE SIGNS
The preceding two chapters have indicated that God revealed the great plan of redemption to the ancients and associated it with the stars. In this way early man was continually reminded of God's prophetic revelation, and was enabled to remember it accurately and to pass it on to his children. For two millenniums before writing became widespread, these signs in the sky were of particular importance because they declared the glory of God as seen in the coming of the Saviour. These heavenly prophets, like the human prophets who came after them, declared the "sufferings of Christ and the glory that should follow."
God Himself is responsible for the names of the stars. He did not entrust this task to Adam, as He did in the giving of names to animals (Psalm 147:4; Isaiah 40:26). We can be sure that the names God gave to the stars had purpose and significance. Many of these names have been preserved to this day. Even a casual consideration of them will impress the Bible student with the remarkable similarity to concepts, types, and themes that are prominent in the Word of God. The meanings of the names of most of the brightest stars bear this out (see the preceding chart).
But the names of individual stars, significant as they
23
26	God's Voice in the Stars

may be, are of limited value unless there is some order or system by which the star names may convey a meaningful story in concert. Unrelated star names would convey little more understanding than a child gets from a dot-to-dot drawing book before the dots are connected; there are just seemingly unrelated dots scattered on the page. But when these same dots are connected with a pencil line in the proper sequence, a picture emerges to fascinate the child.
The stars at night shine in seeming disarray against the blackness of space until they are connected in the way that their Designer intended. Then the great prophetic picturestory is revealed. Our purpose in this chapter is to "fill in the dots"; the resulting picture will delight every believer in the Lord Jesus Christ who is interested in God's purposes.
We shall begin by noting a peculiar word found in job 38:32. The word is Mazzaroth, and it occurs in the context of the voice of Jehovah from the whirlwind (Job 38-41). Job shrivels up before God as challenge after challenge from the voice of the Creator accentuates job's own nothingness in the presence of the Almighty. The infinite power and wisdom of the eternal God are contrasted time and again with the impotence and ignorance of job as finite man, until Job is completely humbled. In the middle of this great barrage of challenges, job is asked the question, "Canst thou bring forth Mazzaroth in his season?"
The word Mazzaroth occurs twice in Scripture, first in Job 38:32 and again in a slightly different form (Mazzaloth) in 2 Kings 23:5. The English Revised Version has "the twelve signs" and in the margin "the signs of the zodiac." The word itself means The Separated, The Divided, or The Apportioned, and it refers to the allotted spaces given to the twelve signs in the circle of the zodiac.
The Twelve Signs	27
These are the signs that mark the twelve divisions of the year. The challenge of Jehovah to job that he might bring forth the twelve signs in their successive order implies, of course, that only Jehovah could do it.

Zodiac Mentioned in the Bible

And thus we are confronted with the fact that the Scriptures mention the twelve signs of the zodiac, with the direct implication that God brings them into view at the proper time for His own purposes. This is a startling idea to people who have thought only of the zodiac in the context of horoscopes. Many of us have been brought up to associate the twelve signs with the pseudoscience of astrology, which is playing such a large part in the occult revolution of modern times. Therefore we tend to assume that the zodiac was always central to the devil-inspired teachings of astrologers.
It is true that astrology uses the signs of the zodiac in a corrupted form, but it is not true that astrology invented them or originated them. What astrology has done is to corrupt them and change their use from that which God originally intended.
A little reflection will underscore the truth that a large part of the evil in our world is a perversion or twisting of that which is good. Pride is the perversion of personal dignity. Tyranny is the perversion of legitimate rulership. Licentiousness is the perversion of the marriage relationship. Idolatry is the perversion of the worship of God. This principle is also valid in regard to astrology as we know it today, which is a perversion of ancient star knowledge by which the glory of God is declared. How it became perverted is discussed in Astrology, the Ancient Conspiracy, by Ben Adam, published by Bethany
r
28	God's Voice in the Stars

Fellowship in 1963.
It is worth noting that the book of job, which is probably the oldest book in the Bible, is the book which most frequently mentions the constellations of stars. The older the writings, the more familiar the knowledge of the heavens. Job refers to two of the signs of the zodiac: Taurus, distinguished by the Pleiades, and Scorpio, referred to as "the Chambers of the South" in the King James Version. Three other constellations are mentioned: Orion, the bear, and Hydra, the crooked serpent. If the writings of job date from as early as 2000 B.C., at which time the zodiac (Mazzaroth) and the constellations were well known, then even Biblical evidence points to their great antiquity.
The word zodiac comes from the Greek zodiakos, meaning A Circle. It is often assumed that the connection is with animals (living creatures, from the Greek zoe, to live, and in English zoo, etc.). However, the root meaning of zodiakos has nothing to do with living creatures, but instead comes from a primitive root zoad, denoting A Way or A Path or Going by Steps. In this connection it is used of the way along which the sun appears to move through the stars in the course of twelve months. This course is repeated every year as the apparent position of the sun returns to almost the exact spot that it occupied on the same date a year before. So the path through the sky in which the sun travels (or appears to travel) is called the zodiac and is divided into twelve segments.
Each of these twelve segments is marked by a group of stars which is easily recognized. These twelve groups of stars (constellations) have names that are familiar to most people and are known as the signs of the zodiac: Gemini, Aquarius, Leo, etc. Each of the twelve signs pictorially represents a prophetic event in relation to the unfolding
The Twelve Signs	29

story of salvation in the history of the world.
For example, the first sign is Virgo. This group of stars is associated with the picture of a woman with some ears of wheat in one hand and a branch in the other hand. The prophetic event portrayed in relation to salvation is the Seed of the woman who was to come, and is connected with the first prophecy of the Saviour, in Genesis 3:15: "And I will put enmity between thee [the serpent] and the woman, and between thy seed and her Seed; it shall bruise thy head and thou shalt bruise His heel." Thus in all of the signs a pictorial illustration and a prophetic event are linked to each constellation. Please keep in mind that the star pattern of Virgo does not necessarily look like a woman to the observer, but is associated with the picture of a woman with the ears of wheat. This will avoid disappointment if you examine the stars with a chart and identify the constellation Virgo (or any other constellation).
The fact that the signs of the zodiac bear little resemblance to the pictures associated with them should confirm the faith of the Christian observer. This is because every ancient culture with any knowledge or tradition concerning the stars recognizes the same twelve star groups and the same names or meanings of names. Examine the star knowledge of the ancients wherever you will-in China, India, Babylonia, Persia, Egypt, Israel, Greece, Rome, Scandinavia, or Central America--and everywhere the same constellations are identified and associated with the identical or similar meanings and names. Astrologers sometimes explain this by suggesting that different people looked up and recognized the same figures in the sky. But this is obviously impossible, and even a quick look will confirm its impossibility. The only explanation is that there was one original Source who identified the con-
30	God's Voice in the Stars

stellations with their meanings before the dispersion of the peoples of the earth. God is that Source.

Prophetic Outline
The twelve signs as originally given by God were a prophetic outline of the purpose of God in the history of salvation. They are understood, however, only if they are seen in their proper order. Since they form a circle, the problem is in knowing where to start and to finish. Astrologers begin with Aries, but this does not correspond with Biblical revelation. A comparison of the prophecies in the heavens with the prophecies in the Bible clearly shows that the starting point is the divine promise concerning the Seed of the woman (Genesis 3:15). The ending point coincides with the climax of Scripture in the triumph of the Lion of the tribe of Judah (Revelation 5:5).
The promise of the Seed in the first book of the Bible is seen in the constellation Virgo. The promise of the triumphant Lion, seen in the last book of the Bible, is displayed in Leo. So the outline begins with Virgo and ends with Leo. Confirmation of this is found in one of the very old zodiacs dating back to 2000 B.C. or before. It is called the zodiac of Dendereh and was found on the ceiling of the portico of the temple of Esneh in Egypt. In this zodiac there is placed between the signs of Virgo and Leo a picture of the Sphinx. The Sphinx (with the head of a woman and the tail of a lion) confirms the starting and the finishing points for the zodiac. Many scholars think that this was in fact the main purpose of the Sphinx and thus solves its "riddle."
In ancient times there were more constellations recognized than the twelve signs of the zodiac. Associated with each of the twelve were three other signs called
The Twelve Signs	31

decans. The word decan means A Part, indicating that they belong to the sign and that their message is a part of that sign's message. Thus there were forty-eight original constellations in all (twelve signs, with three decans belonging to each). The prophetic story of the heavens is told out by these forty-eight constellations. We shall discover in later chapters that the meanings of the decans complement the basic meanings of the signs to which they belong.

Leading Characters in the Pageant

As the pageant of salvation's history is revealed, two great persons are in the spotlight. One is the adversary, "that old serpent, the devil." He is introduced by a number of names and symbolical representations. The snake or serpent is prominent in three large constellations: Draco, Serpens, and Hydra. He is also shown as the enemy in Lepus, as the sea-monster in Cetus, and as the scorpion in Scorpio. He is always the enemy seeking to wreck the purpose of man's redemption. His evil designs seem to prevail until ultimately he is crushed and defeated by the One who "through death ... might destroy him that had the power of death, that is, the devil; and deliver them who ... were ... subject to bondage" (Hebrews 2:14-15).
The other leading character in the pageant of redemption is the Lord Jesus Christ. In every one of the twelve signs He is glorified by the Holy Spirit, who "garnished the heavens" (Job 26:13). The Holy Spirit's work has always been to glorify the Lord Jesus Christ (John 16:1314). Christ is glorified as the "Seed of the woman" in Virgo and as the Redeemer who paid the required price in Libra. He is seen enduring the suffering of death in Scorpio and as the triumphant Conqueror in Sagittarius.
a
32	God's Voice in the Stars

We could continue throughout the whole zodiac, where everything speaks of Christ's glory. He is the Waterman pouring out blessings, He is the Lamb, He is the Ox, He is the Lion, etc. Everywhere in the heavens the Lord Jesus Christ shines with divine brilliance: in His Person and His work, in His deity and His humanity, in His suffering and His glory, in His first coming in humility and His second coming in majesty. Just as Christ is the master theme of the written Word, so He is the master theme of stellar revelation. Truly "the heavens declare the glory of God." Is it any wonder that Satan has so polluted and corrupted this revelation that few people can still appreciate it?

Prophetic Significance of the Twelve Signs
1. Virgo	The Seed of the Woman Christ the Incarnate Son
2. Libra	The Required Price Paid Christ the Redeemer
3. Scorpio	The Mortal Conflict Christ the Sufferer
4. Sagittarius	The Final Triumph
Christ the Conqueror
5. Capricornus Life Out of Death Christ the Sacrifice
6. Aquarius	Blessing Out of Victory Christ the Living Water
7. Pisces	Deliverance Out of Bondage Christ the Liberator
8. Aries	Glory Out of Humiliation Christ the Crowned Lamb
9. Taurus	His Glorious Coming Christ the Judge
The Twelve Signs	33

10. Gemini	His Rule On Earth Christ the King
11. Cancer	His Possessions Held Secure Christ the Protector
12. Leo	His Enemies Destroyed Christ the Victor
4
THE INCARNATE SON Virgo: The Seed of the Woman
The earliest prophecies of the gospel were visually preserved by associating them with star patterns called signs or constellations (Genesis 1:14). The belt-like area around the middle of the starry panorama was called the zodiac, meaning The Way. In the zodiac were twelve constellations of stars known as the signs of the zodiac. To each of these basic sign-constellations belonged three other constellations, either above or below the belt area of the zodiac, which were called decans, meaning A Part. A prophetic meaning was associated with the twelve basic signs and was amplified in the decans belonging to each of the signs. The whole sky had forty-eight constellations and formed a pictorial revelation of the promises of God to early man. (These forty-eight constellations did not include all visible stars, which demonstrates that their purpose was in their meanings and not in mapping the sky.) These promises concerned the Person and work of the One who was coming to save man from sin and to restore the relationship with God which man had lost through the Fall.
The twelve signs with their decans (the term "constellation" will be used hereafter for the sake of clarity)
35
36	God's Voice in the Stars

were divided into three groups which presented the threefold work of Christ as Saviour. In the first four signs Christ is portrayed as the Suffering Saviour delivering man from the penalty of sin. In the middle four signs Christ is portrayed as the Glorified Blesser delivering man from the power of sin. In the remaining four signs Christ is portrayed as the Reigning judge delivering man from the presence of sin.
The prophetic revelation in the heavens begins with the sign of Virgo. The picture of Virgo is that of a woman with an ear of wheat in her left hand and a branch in her right hand. It can easily be seen in the southern sky on a summer evening and is distinguished by the bright star Spica. The name of the sign is from the Latin and has a double connotation. Virgo means A Virgin and Virga means A Branch. The Latin Vulgate uses both words as referring to Christ, as the Branch in Isaiah 11:1 and as virgin-born in Matthew 1:23.
In the more ancient languages the same meanings are evident. The Hebrew name for it is Bethulah, which is the common word used for a virgin in the Old Testament. The Arabs called it Adarah (Virgin), and the Greeks called it Parthenos, which is the word for virgin in the New Testament: "Behold, a virgin [parthenos] shall be with child and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call His name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is, God with us" (Matthew 1:23). In the traditions of these and other ancient peoples, she was not only a virgin but a virgin
mother. In Egypt she was named Aspolio, which means The Seed, thereby confirming the connection between the virgin and her son.
The names of individual stars in this sign amplify its basic meaning. Spica, the bright star in her left hand, has the ancient meaning of The Branch and marks the ear of
The Incarnate Son (Virgo)	37

wheat (the seed) which she holds. Thus the personal identity of Him who was to be the Seed of the woman is connected with the prophecies of the Branch-none other than the Lord Jesus Christ. He was to be the Seed of the woman who would bruise the head of the serpent while Himself being bruised (Genesis 3:15).
He was also to be called the Branch of Jehovah, in one of the most interesting lines of prophetic truth in the Old Testament. In Hebrew the name for the star Spica was Tsemech. Of more than twenty Hebrew words for branch used in the Old Testament, this is the only one which refers exclusively to Messiah. As the Branch (Tsemech) Christ is revealed as King in Jeremiah 23:5,6, as Servant in Zechariah 3:8, as Man in Zechariah 6:12, and as God in Isaiah 4:2. Is it not significant that the only four uses of this word in Scripture reveal Christ in the same fourfold character as do the four Gospels? Matthew shows Christ as King, Mark as Servant, Luke as Man, and John as God.
Other star names also speak of Christ. Zavijava, near Virgo's head, means Gloriously Beautiful, the same word used in Isaiah 4:2 concerning the Branch of Jehovah: "In that day shall the branch of the Lord be beautiful and glorious." In the right arm of Virgo is the star Vindemiatrix, which means The Son Who Comes or The Branch Who Comes. The star Subilon in her right hand means Ear of Wheat and looks on to the coming One who called Himself the Corn of Wheat who should fall into the ground and die in order to bring forth fruit (John 12:24).
In summary, the truth presented in the sign of Virgo is that the virgin was to have a Son (her Seed) who would be called the Branch of Jehovah. God would appear in human form, the Child of a virgin mother. We call this truth the Incarnation and note that the gospel in the stars begins at the same point as the gospel in the Scriptures.
38	God's Voice in the Stars
The three constellations of Virgo spotlight the coming, the suffering, and the glory of the Seed of the woman.

Coma- The Desired

The first constellation of Virgo is Coma. Most modern charts have the name Coma Berenices (Berenice's Hair). Berenice was the wife of Ptolemy III of Egypt and vowed to dedicate her fine hair to the temple of Venus if her husband returned safely from an expedition. He did return and she had her hair placed in the temple, but it was stolen. To comfort her the astronomer Conon declared that the god Jupiter had taken it and made it a constellation. (This is an example of how ancient meanings became perverted.) Thus the ancient meaning was changed. In antiquity the constellation Coma was a picture of a woman with her child. The name Coma in Hebrew means The Desired or Longed For. In ancient Egypt the name was Shes-nu (The Desired Son). The Egyptian temple of Dendereh shows Coma as a seated woman and her child, dating back to two thousand years before Christ.
Albumazar, the famous Arab astronomer of the eighth century (and not a Christian), wrote, "There arises in the first decan, as the Persians, Chaldeans, and Egyptians teach, a young woman whose Persian name denotes a pure virgin sitting on a throne, nourishing an infant boy (the boy I say) having a Hebrew name, by some nations called Ihesu, with the signification leza, which in Greek is called Christos. " (A Latin translation of Albumazar's work is in the British Museum Library.)
There are no bright stars in Coma but a large number of dimmer ones. The connection with the sign of Virgo is evident. The woman in both signs is the same-Mary the
The Incarnate Son (Virgo)	39

virgin mother of Jesus. The infant in Coma is identified with the Seed and the Branch in Virgo. The Desired Son is undoubtedly Jesus, who was born in Bethlehem. The Hebrew form of the root Coma is the very word which the Prophet Haggai uses when speaking of the coming of Messiah: "The desire of all nations shall come" (Haggai 2:7).
It may well have been that the "star of Bethlehem" was a new star in this constellation, but the traditions about this go beyond our present purpose. What the constellation Coma does reveal is that the coming Seed of the woman seen in Virgo was to be the "Child born and the Son given" (Isaiah 9:6). The Lord Jesus Christ was this
"longed-for" Son, born in the village of Bethlehem to be
the Saviour of the world.

Centaurus- The Despised

The second constellation of Virgo is Centaurus. Together with the stars of the Southern Cross which it surrounds, it sparkles with one of the most brilliant displays in the entire heavens. (Due to the procession of the equinoxes it is no longer easily seen from northern latitudes.) It is depicted as a centaur, the torso and head of a man with the body and legs of a horse, and thus a dualnatured being. The Hebrew name for it was Bezeh, which means The Despised. It is the same word which the Prophet Isaiah used in speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ: "He is despised and rejected of men" (Isaiah 53:3). Another Hebrew name for it was Asmeath, which means A Sin- Offering (as in Isaiah 53:10).
Christ has two natures in one Being, that which is both truly God and truly Man. The dual-natured Centaurus shows this. He is shown in the act of piercing the enemy,
40	God's Voice in the Stars

Lupus, with a spear, and at the same time is over the Cross, which speaks of life from death. The chief star is the third-brightest in all the heavens, Alpha Centauri, and is the closest known star to our solar system (four and a half light years away). The ancient name of this star is Toliman, which means The Heretofore and The Hereafter. This name refers to Christ as the One who is, who was, and who is to come (Revelation 1:8)-in other words, His eternal existence as God. So in connecting the name of the constellation with the name of its chief star we see the dual nature of the Lord Jesus Christ. As Man He is the despised Sin-Offering and as God He is the Eternal One.
The Greek name for Centaurus was Cherion (The Pierced). In mythology he was renowned for his skill in hunting, medicine, music, athletics, and prophecy; all the greatest heroes were his pupils. He was immortal but voluntarily agreed to die when wounded by a poison arrow, and he transferred his immortality to Prometheus. In this legend we can discern a corrupted form of the prophecy of Him who was despised and rejected of men and who laid down His life that others might live. The final constellation in Virgo completes the picture.
Bootes- The Coming Shepherd

This constellation is popularly known in Great Britain as the Ploughman, but most ancient zodiacs picture Bootes as a herdsman, an Oriental shepherd. His name is from the Hebrew root Bo, meaning The Coming. In his hand are a staff and a sickle. The brightest star in this lovely constellation is Arcturus, which means He Comes. The patriarch Job mentions Arcturus (Job 9:9), probably referring to the constellation as a whole rather than the specific star. Another star, Nekkar, in the head of the
The Incarnate Son (Virgo)	41

shepherd has a name meaning The Pierced (Zechariah 12:10). Mizar has a name meaning Guarding, and Muphride means Who Separates.
The Greek poet Aratus refers to Bootes as Arctophylax-The Guardian of Arctos Which Is the Flock of the Greater Fold. This is known in the United States as the Big Dipper. Aratus was a Greek poet who wrote a long poem about the constellations in 270 B.C. to popularize the work of the astronomer Eudoxos (403-350 B.C.), whose work in turn comes from more ancient sources. Interestingly, it was from this poem of Aratus, called The Divine Signs, that the Apostle Paul quotes in Acts 17:28. From very old tradition the astronomer terms Bootes as a shepherd and guardian, giving us the prophecy of the Shepherd whose name means He Comes. Another star, Al Katurops, means The Branch, and we find that the coming Shepherd is linked with the prophecies of the Branch. The Egyptians called Bootes Smat, which means Who Rules.
From these names it is clear that the constellation Bootes pictures Christ as the Shepherd who is coming even though He has been pierced. He is coming to separate out those who are not His, and to guard and rule His own. The staff in His hand is the mark of a Shepherd and the sickle adds the thought of harvest. And so ends the first of the twelve signs with its three constellations. The great prophetic truths pictured in the sky are that He who was
coming would be truly man and the Seed of a virgin woman; He would be the Desired Son and yet the Despised Sin-Offering. Finally, He will rule and guard as the coming Shepherd of His own sheep.
42	God's Voice in the Stars The Sign of Virgo

1. Virgo	The Roman with the Seed The Virgin-born Seed
2. Coma	The Woman with Her Son The Desired Son
3. Centaurus	The Dual-Natured Centaur The Despised Sin-Offering
4. Bootes	The Shepherd Guarding The Coming Shepherd
5
THE REDEEMER
Libra: The Required Price Paid
The great revolving stage of the heavens moves around slowly to present another of the celestial sign-prophecies. Libra now follows Virgo into the center position, and the truth which it reveals follows logically the truth seen in Virgo. As Virgo showed the coming Saviour to be the Seed of the woman, so Libra reveals the price which the Saviour would pay in order to provide the redemption of man. The wonderful story of the gospel is unfolded carefully in these signs.
Libra is not a particularly bright sign. It is identified by two conspicuous stars that stand out between the white star Spica in Virgo and the red star Antares in Scorpio. To observers in the Northern Hemisphere it can easily be seen in the late spring. Libra is always pictured as a pair of oldfashioned balances or scales, with a horizontal beam supported with a pivot in the middle, and two pans of equal weight suspended from the ends. Greek mythology states that Libra commemorates Mochis, the inventor of weights and measures. It is associated from very ancient times with the patrons of justice and order. For this reason scales have often been used as a symbol on buildings housing courts of law and justice.
45
I
46	God's Voice in the Stars

The Hebrews called this sign Mozanaim-The Scales or
Weighing. This idea is used in Scripture in such passages as Isaiah 40:12, where God is said to weigh the mountains in scales and the hills in a balance. It is used again in the solemn word to Belshazzar, king of Babylon: "Thou art weighed in the balances and art found wanting" (Daniel 5:27). Belshazzar failed to satisfy the righteous demands of God to cover his own sin.
The name in Arabic was Al Zubena, which means Purchase or Redemption. So the weighing on scales and the purchase price are found in the Hebrew and Arabian traditions. Purchase is properly associated with weights and measures to this very day as shoppers compare the measure of the purchase with its price. Salvation, too, is often described as redemption by purchase. In Coptic the sign Libra was called Lambadia, which means Station of Propitiation. The two roots of this word mean literally The Grace of the Branch, which is interesting in the light of Biblical revelation.
These three stars pinpoint the message of the sign of Libra. The brightest is Zuben Al Genubi, which means The Price Which Is Deficient. Undoubtedly it points to the price that man would attempt to pay for his own redemption. But man is altogether depraved and cannot pay the price of perfect righteousness or perfect sacrifice which God demands. There is nothing he can do or pay which is enough to purchase salvation. Like Belshazzar, all people are weighed in the balances and found lacking. The price they might offer to pay is deficient and cannot satisfy God. The Psalmist said, "Men of low degree are only vanity, and men of rank are a lie; in the balances they go up; they are together lighter than breath" (Psalm 62:9 NASB).
The other bright star is Zuben Al Chemali, which
The Redeemer (Libra)	47

means The Price Which Covers. So the atoning sacrifice of the Seed of the woman is seen to be sufficient to purchase man's redemption. Only this Seed can present Himself to God in perfect righteousness and pay the price of a perfect sacrifice which God demands. The price which covers is the precious blood of Christ. Redemption is the payment of a price to buy back what is in the possession of another. We are redeemed, Peter declares, "Not with corruptible things, as silver and gold ... but with the precious blood of Christ" (1 Peter 1:18-19). The elders in Heaven sang of Him, "Thou wast slain and hast redeemed us 'to God by Thy blood" (Revelation 5:9). This truth is emphasized by the only other star with a known name: Zuben Akrabi, which means The Price of the Conflict. We are reminded by this star that the payment of the price of redemption at Calvary involved a conflict.
Libra declares man's depravity and God's ability to redeem. Redemption is purchased by the payment of the full price demanded by a holy God. Libra points to the
place of redemption at Calvary "where Heaven's love and Heaven's justice meet." It points above all to the Lord Jesus Christ, the Seed of the woman, whose blood was shed in payment for man's redemption.

Crux-Christ Cut Off in Death

The first of the three constellations related to Libra is the revered Southern Cross or, more properly, Crux. It has the somewhat exaggerated reputation of being the most wonderful sight in the heavens. This reputation is enhanced by the fact that most people living in northern latitudes have never seen it, and depend on the descriptions of enthusiastic travelers. It is a bright and beautiful star group and is recognized by many people
48	God's Voice in the Stars

living south of the equator as the only constellation they know. Four bright stars form a reasonably shaped cross underneath the stars in Centaurus.
Its ancient name in Hebrew was Adom, which means Cutting Off. The word "cut off " is used in Daniel 9:26 to refer to Messiah in the great prophecy of the seventy weeks. The cutting off in that prophecy refers to the death of Messiah the Prince on the cross, after the expiration of the first sixty-nine weeks. The expression, cut off, was also used of the death penalty inflicted by a judge or court, and implies a violent death. The "cutting" of the covenant victim in Jeremiah 34:18 also uses this same term. It is perhaps significant that Crux was last visible in the latitude of Jerusalem at about the time of our Lord's death on the cross. Even before then it would have been very low on the southern horizon and not easily observed. Perhaps this is the reason why the names of individual stars have not survived.
Amerigo Vespucci on his voyages on the Atlantic Ocean at the end of the fifteenth century saw the Southern Cross and congratulated himself on having rediscovered what had been lost for so long. He associated these four stars with a reference in Dante's Purgatorio, which says, "Four stars ne'er seen before save by the ken of our first parents." How Dante may have known of them is an interesting question.
The last letter in the Hebrew alphabet is Tau and was at first made in the form of a cross (as on very old coins). The form gradually changed and is now a three-sided square letter. Its meaning is A Mark, indicating especially A Boundary Mark, A Limit or Finish. The mark of the cross was a very ancient sign. The Persians and Egyptians associated it with "the queen of heaven." Cakes made in her honor were marked with it. This heathen custom was
The Redeemer (Libra)	49
brought into Christian tradition in the form of hot cross buns on Easter. The word Easter itself comes from the Assyrian name of the queen of heaven, Isthar.
It would seem that the ancient significance of the mark in its prophetical setting was It Is Finished (i.e., the work of Christ). In Egypt the meaning of the sign of the cross was Life. Eternal life is obtained by the finished work of Christ, the Seed of the woman. His sacrifice was once-forall finished and perfect as He gave up His life that sinful man might have everlasting life (John 5:24). So the meaning of Crux, the first constellation in Libra, is well summarized in the following lines:
'Tis finished; the Messiah dies,
Cut off for sins, but not His own;
Accomplished is the sacrifice;
The great redeeming work is done.
Anonymous
Lupus-Christ the Victim Slain

The second constellation in Libra is known as Lupus (The Wolf) because the old illustrations resembled a wolf, but it could be any animal. The Latins called it Victima (The Victim), and this is the important truth. The animal, whatever it is, has been killed and is falling down dead. The Arabs called it Asedaton and the Hebrews called it a similar name, Asedah. Both mean To Be Slain. Lupus has been slain by the spear of Centaurus. Centaurus signified Christ the Despised One, who was both God and Man. Lupus signifies Christ the Victim slain and, note carefully, slain by His own act. He offered Himself without spot to God and put away sin by the sacrifice of Himself (Hebrews 9:11,26). He Himself said of His life: "No man taketh it from Me, but I lay it down of Myself " (John 10:18). It was necessary that His death be voluntary in order that the
50	God's Voice in the Stars

sacrifice might have value. What a wonder that ''He loved me and gave Himself for me"!
In the famous zodiac of Dendereh, Lupus is portrayed as a child called Sura (A Lamb). Surely this speaks again of Him who is "the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world" (Revelation 13:8). Silently and willingly He suffered: "He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is dumb, so He openeth not His mouth'' (Isaiah 53:7).
Corona- Crown for the Worthy Redeemer

Corona Borealis (The Northern Crown) or more simply, Corona, is a small but conspicuous constellation northeast of the star Arcturus. It is a lovely semicircle of a halfdozen stars and one of the few constellations that looks like the object for which it is named. This beautiful circlet is right overhead in the early summer sky.
Corona pictures the crown of glory which adorns the head of Him who once suffered as the Just for the unjust. In the written Scriptures the sufferings of Christ are almost never mentioned without the further revelation of His glory, and so it is in the stellar revelation. Whenever His suffering is presented, so is the glory which follows it. Consistent with this, the sign Libra shows Christ's suffering and death, but ends with His glory. Corona is the crown bestowed on the head of Him who suffered for our sins. The cross is followed by the crown. "We see Jesus ... for the suffering of death crowned with glory and honor" (Hebrews 2:9).
The Hebrew name for Corona is Atarah, meaning Royal Crown. In Arabic its name means Ornament or Jewel. The bright star is Alpacca and means The Shining. The Greek myth concerning Corona is perhaps a twisted version of
The Redeemer (Libra)	51
the ancient prophecy. Ariadne was a woman who through her great love for Theseus came to her death, but was raised by Bacchus to a place among the immortals and given this crown. Is the myth not a perverted echo of the promised Seed of the woman, who was to give His life for mortals but whom God would raise up and give a crown of glory and a name which is above every name?
To us Thy cross with all its shame,
With all its grace, be given;
Though earth disowns Thy lowly name,
God honors it in Heaven.
Thomas Kelly The Sign of Libra

1. Libra	Scales and the Sufficient Price
The Blood of Christ the Price
Which Covers
2. Crux	The Mark of the Cross
The Death and Finished Work of
Christ
3. Lupus	The Slain Victim
The Sacrifice of Christ for Sin 4. Corona	The Crown
The Crown Bestowed on Christ
6
THE SUFFERER
Scorpio: The Mortal Conflict
The third scene in the prophetic drama of the skies presents the great conflict of the ages in which the mighty Saviour triumphs over the old serpent, the devil. The sign is named Scorpius or Scorpio and is the most brilliant of the twelve signs of the zodiac. Unfortunately for observers in northern-hemisphere countries, it cannot be properly appreciated because part of it is below the horizon. However, when fully seen it is a superb sight and is easily recognized by its unique shape and by the bright red star Antares.
The sign of Scorpio depicts a huge scorpion. It is in the act of trying to sting the heel of a mighty man, Ophiuchus, who is wrestling with a great snake, Serpens. At the same time the scorpion is being crushed by the other foot of the mighty man. God placed this sign in the heavens to continue the story in prophecy of the coming Redeemer who was to bruise the serpent's head while He Himself is bruised in the heel (Genesis 3:15). The sign of Virgo pointed to Him as-the promised Seed of the woman. The sign of Libra showed the price He would pay to secure man's redemption. Now this sign of Scorpio shows the conflict He would have to endure. These celestial
53
54	God's Voice in the Stars

prophecies were given to man in the beginning, and later confirmed and expanded in the written Scriptures. Finally they were fulfilled in the first coming of the Lord Jesus Christ.
A scorpion is a small animal in the same class as spiders, with crablike claws in the front and a curved, chainlike tail in which is a poisonous sting. A scorpion will react instantly with a most painful sting when stepped on. The old name in Hebrew, Arabic, and Syriac is Akrab, which means A Scorpion but also means mounding, Conflict, War. The root of this word is used in Psalm 144:1, where David blesses God for teaching his hands to war. The scorpion may be referred to in Psalm 91:13, which can be translated, "The venomous thing and the dragon shalt thou trample underfoot." This may be the reference referred to by the Lord in Luke 10: 18-19.
The Egyptian zodiacs have the sign of Scorpio as a monster serpent called Typhon or Python. In Coptic the name is Isidis, which means The Attack of the Enemy. The Greek myth tells us that Orion boasted that he would kill every poisonous reptile on earth, and so Artemis sent the scorpion to kill him. Even this is from much more ancient stories of the Sumerians in which the scorpion is always a deadly enemy.
The brightest star in Scorpio is Antares, which to the naked eye is similar in appearance to the planet Mars, because of its magnitude and deep red color. From this it is supposed to get its name, which means The Rival of Ares (Mars). Mars is called The Planet of War. Others give the meaning of Antares as The Wounding, and some ancient zodiacs have the name of Antares the same as the star in the tail, Lesath, meaning The Perverse. The names of the stars and of the constellation indicate that Scorpio represents the evil one in his efforts to destroy the Seed of
The Sufferer (Scorpio)	55

the woman.
The Scripture narrative indicates many attempts to destroy the chosen Seed. When Israel was in Egypt, Satan energized Pharaoh to destroy every male seed of Abraham (Exodus 1:16,22). In the kingdom of Judah he prompted the wicked Athaliah to destroy all the "royal seed" (1. Kings 11:1). During the captivity, the wicked Haman again tried to have all the Jews slain, no doubt inspired by Satan (Esther 3:6). When the Saviour was born in Bethlehem, another attempt was made to kill all the Jewish babies, including Him who was "born King" (Matthew 2:16).
The malicious battle was continued with growing desperation during the life of the Lord Jesus: in the wilderness, at Nazareth, and in the Garden of Gethsemane. The climax of the wounding was at the cross. It was there that the evil one struck the Seed of the woman with all his venomous might. Outwardly he seemed successful, for Jesus died; but that very death proved ultimately to be the defeat of the evil one and the triumph of the Crucified. The succeeding constellations in the sign of Scorpio speak clearly of Messiah's victory.

Serpens- The Conflict for the Crown
Ophiuchus- The Evil One Held

These two constellations of Scorpio are intertwined in the sky and must also be seen together in their prophetic significance. Ophiuchus, the Mighty Man, is depicted in a great struggle with a snake who is trying to seize the crown (corona). It is a very large constellation to the north of Scorpio but has no bright stars of particular note, though it is easily located. It can be seen at once that the contest
56	God's Voice in the Stars

between the mighty Ophiuchus and the serpent is a contest for dominion, for the crown. In the Garden of Eden the devil, posing as a serpent, managed to wrest the crown of dominion from the first man. Though Adam lost that dominion, God promised him that it would be regained by the Seed of the woman. This constellation shows that promised contest with the Seed of the woman-the Second Man, who is Jesus Christ, the Son of God. In this contest the serpent utterly fails to snatch the crown and is himself defeated and trodden underfoot. The one who was seen as the scorpion wounding the heel of Ophiuchus is now seen as the serpent being defeated in his fiendish design to snatch the crown.
The brightest star in Serpens is Unuk, which means Encompassing. The Psalmist said, "Dogs have compassed me: the assembly of the wicked have inclosed me" (Psalm 22:16). Again he said, "The sorrows of death compassed me, and the pains of hell gat hold upon me" (Psalm 116:3). The star Cheleb in the head of the serpent means The Serpent Enfolding. Star names in Ophiuchus continue the same idea. Ras El Hagus, in his head, means The Head of Him Who Holds, while the name Ophiuchus itself means The Serpent Held. The star in his foot is Siaf and means Bruised, Mageros in his knee means Contending, and Triophas has the meaning Treading Underfoot. The names are consistent with the theme.
Ophiuchus is identified in Greek mythology with Aesculapius, the son of Apollo and Coronis. He became skilled in medicine and was renowned for having restored the dead Hyppolytus to life, by means of blood from the side of the goddess of justice and from the slain Gorgon. Thus he became worshiped as the god of health and healing. The symbol of the entwined serpent (from the
The Sufferer (Scorpio)	57

original star sign) became the symbol of medical arts in the city of Pergamum and is still used this way today. The Greek myth is no doubt a corruption of earlier truth preserved in the sign language of the constellations that the Coming One, in defeating the power of the serpent, should become the great Healer of the sickness and sorrow that sin has brought.
The myth goes on to tell us that Pluto, the ruler of the underworld, was upset by the raising of the dead and created a clamor until Jupiter was persuaded to kill Aesculapius, and was raised to glory in the heavens by the influence of Apollo. However perverted the myths, the Lord Jesus is the promised Sun of Righteousness who came with "healing in His wings." He is the Great Physician, the Desired One, and the Restorer of soul and body. He is the Resurrection and the Life, who raises up those dead in sin by virtue of His shed blood. He died by the "thunderbolt" from the divine hand to silence forever the clamors of hell and was raised enthroned in the highest Heaven as the God of salvation. The following lines are from an ancient prophetic hymn to Aesculapius, but they would better be sung of the Lord Jesus Christ.'
Hail, great Physician of the world! all hail! Hail, mighty Infant, who in years to come Shall heal the nations and defraud the tomb! Swift be Thy growth! Thy triumphs unconfined! Make kingdoms thicker and increase mankind: Thy daring art shall animate the dead, And draw the thunder on Thy guilty head: For Thou shalt die, but from the dark abode Rise up victorious, and be twice a God.
 J.A. Seiss, The Gospel in the Stars, pages 129-130.
58	God's Voice in the Stars Hercules- The Mighty Victor

The third constellation in the sign of Scorpio is Hercules. It is also a large constellation lying between Ophiuchus and Draco, but, like Ophiuchus, it is not at all prominent and has no obvious shape by which it is easily identified. This fact belies the popular idea of astrologers that the star groups were chosen to match the heroes, for if this were true, surely the most famous character should be represented by the brightest constellations.
Hercules is pictured as a mighty hero bending down on one knee with his right heel lifted up, as if he had been wounded, with his left foot placed over the head of Draco, the great dragon. In his right hand he carries a huge club and in his left hand he holds a three-headed monster called Cerberus. In the Egyptian zodiac of Dendereh he is called Bau (Who Comes). In Arabic his name means The Strong One. The star in his head has the name Ras El Gethi, which means The Head of Him Who Bruises. Another star, Kornephorus, means The Branch, Kneeling. Caiam, in his right arm, means Punishing.
The Greeks themselves were not sure of the proper meaning and origin of the names, as the famous poet of the constellations admitted. Speaking in his great poem, he says of Hercules, "An image none knows certainly to name, nor what he labors for."' However clouded the Greeks' understanding, Hercules was nevertheless the
symbol of power.
The original star picture was to represent the coming Victor who would destroy the old serpent. Though His knee is bowed (in the suffering of death), He plants His foot on the head of the dragon (Satan) and will yet subdue all His enemies. The great achievements in the Greek
'Seiss, page 132.
The Sufferer (Scorpio)	59

myths of Herakles are no more than a faint and blurred picture of the all-conquering Saviour who destroyed him who had the power of death and will one day come in glorious triumph over all His foes.

The Sign of Scorpio

1. Scorpio	The Scorpion Seeking to Wound But
Itself Crushed
The Enemy Wounding Him
2. Serpens	The Serpent Struggling with the Seed
of the Roman The Conflict
3. Ophiuchus	The Mighty One Holding the Serpent
from Obtaining the Crown The Evil One
4. Hercules	The Mighty Man, Humbled Yet
Victorious
The Mighty One Victorious
7
THE CONQUEROR
Sagittarius: The Final Triumph
Act One of the drama of prophetic truth presented on the great stage of the sky closes with a scene of triumph and victory. The main actor in this scene is the archer named Sagittarius. He appears in the form of a centaur, coming in confidence and strength, with his great bow drawn to the full. The arrow, ready to fly, is aimed at the heart of Scorpio, the enemy. The Greek poet Aratus said of him:

Midst golden stars he stands refulgent now, And thrusts the Scorpion with his bended bow.

The Greeks called him Cherion and saw him as noble, righteous, and divine.
Sagittarius, unlike Scorpio (who precedes him along the great skyway of the zodiac), is not particularly striking as a star group. It can be easily found, however, by looking eastward from the star Antares, the bright red star which marks the heart of Scorpio. It is to this red star that the arrow of Sagittarius points, perhaps indicating the mortal wound inflicted in the heart of the deadly enemy. Sagittarius is the most southerly of all the zodiacal signs,
61
62	God's Voice in the Stars

and appears very low in the horizon of the summer sky in northern latitudes.
The name Sagittarius means Archer in both Hebrew and Syriac. The word is used in Genesis 21:20 of the son of Hagar. In Arabic his name is Al Kaus (The Arrow), while in the Coptic records his name means The Beauty of the Coming Forth. Individual star names fit into the general picture, though their actual identity has been lost. Naim means The Gracious One, Al Shaula means Dart, and Al Warida means Who Comes Forth. The ancient Accadian name for the sign is Nunki (Prince of the Earth). All taken together show the regal dignity of the heavenly Archer as He goes forth to conquer.
The victorious Sagittarius is a centaur, a being with two natures. In the sign of Virgo, the first scene of this drama, another centaur was staged, called Centaurus. He pictured the dual nature of the Lord Jesus Christ, who came as the God-Man to accomplish His wonderful work of overthrowing the power of the enemy and redeeming sinful man. Centaurus was the Despised One of whom the Prophet Isaiah wrote in chapter 53. Sagittarius also shows the dual-natured ancient Man, but now as the Victorious One, in contrast to Centaurus, the Despised.
The head that once was crowned with thorns
Is crowned with glory now; A royal diadem adorns
The mighty Victor's brow.
Thomas Kelly

The theme of the prophetic message of Sagittarius is written in Psalm 45, which also speaks of Christ. As the Gracious One, Christ is seen in verse 2: "Grace is poured into Thy lips: therefore God bath blessed Thee forever." As the Prince who comes forth, He is seen in verse 4:
The Conqueror (Sagittarius)	63

"And in Thy majesty ride prosperously because of truth. As the divine person who is noble and righteous, note verse 4: "Of truth and meekness and righteousness." As the great Archer in verse 5: "Thine arrows are sharp in the heart of the King's enemies." As the Prince of the earth, in verse 6: "Thy throne, 0 God, is for ever and ever; the sceptre of Thy kingdom is a right sceptre."

Lyra-Praise for the Victorious Redeemer

High in the summer sky in the northern hemisphere shines one of the sky's sparkling gems-the star Vega, which marks the constellation Lyra. This star group pictures a lyre or harp. In the Greek myth it is the harp presented to Orpheus by Apollos. With it Orpheus was able to do wonderful things, like smoothing the seas and enchanting the mountains. At his music, rivers forgot to flow and the sufferers forgot their pains.
The name of the bright star Vega means He Shall Be Exalted and directs attention to the theme of the praise from the harp. The root of the same word in Hebrew is used in the song of Moses after the Israelites had crossed the Red Sea: "I will sing unto the Lord, for He bath triumphed gloriously" (Exodus 15:1). Just as the song of Moses followed the deliverance of God's people from Egypt's bondage, so the song of the heavenly elders follows the deliverance of the people of God from the bondage of sin and Satan (Revelation 5:9,13): "And they sung a new song, saying, Thou . . . hast redeemed us to God by Thy blood out of every kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation." The answering chorus sang, "Blessing, and honour, and glory, and power be unto Him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb for ever and ever."
64	God's Voice in the Stars

The harp is one of the very oldest of instruments, used in the lifetime of Adam (Genesis 4:21). Music has often been used as a vehicle of praise. Here in Lyra the harp is connected with joy and gladness at the victory of the Archer. The myths of the Greeks were mostly drawn from earlier and more Eastern traditions, like those of the Akkadians and Babylonians. The power of music from the harp of Orpheus makes us smile, but if we see the harp music in the light of the gloriously triumphant Son of God, and its effect on a suffering world, who will someday praise Him in full and unhindered appreciation, then we realize that the exaggerations of Orpheus are not even half the truth.
Some old uranographies (star maps and charts) mark this constellation with an eagle in the attitude of triumph. The name of the star Sheliak means Eagle and that of Sulaphat means Ascending. The famous zodiac of Dendereh is one of these. For this reason some
uranographers incorporate both eagle and lyre into the picture.

Ara-The Lake of Fire
Prepared for the Devil and Has Angels

Further to the south from Sagittarius is its second decan or constellation, called Ara. It is an altar placed in the upside-down position. On it the fire is blazing toward the lower regions of "outer darkness." Unfortunately, it is too far south to be seen from most of the northern hemisphere now, though five thousand years ago it was easily seen from Middle Eastern lands. The two bright stars in Centaurus that point one way to the Southern Cross point in the other direction to Ara, making it easy to find.
The ancient Arabs referred to it as Al Mugamra, the
The Conqueror (Sagittarius)	65

meaning of which is Completing or Finishing and has the idea of making an end of what was undertaken. The spiritual symbolism here refers to the fires of judgment which consume the enemies of the mighty Sagittarius. The Greeks used the word Ara frequently in the sense of cursing or imprecation. The curse is placed on the great enemy, who will one day be cast into "everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels" (Matthew 25:41; Revelation 20:10). So the constellation of Ara reminds us that the conquering Sagittarius goes on in His battle to the complete overthrow and the final perdition of the enemy. It is He who spoils the principalities and powers, triumphing over them, and will one day take the "great dragon, that old serpent" and cast him into the abyss.
The consuming fire of Ara follows the triumphant praise seen in Lyra. That praise is reflected in Psalm 21: "O LORD ... Thine hand shall find out all thine enemies .... Their fruit shalt Thou destroy from the earth ... . For they intended evil against Thee .... Thou shalt make ready Thine arrows upon Thy strings against the face of them. Be Thou exalted, LORD, in Thine own strength; so will we sing and praise Thy power." It is therefore striking that in the same psalm which speaks of the Conquering Bowman in terms of praise (as seen in Lyra) God also alludes to the fires of judgment: "Thou shalt make them as a fiery oven in the time of Thine anger: the Lord shall swallow them up in His wrath, and the fire shall devour them" (Psalm 21:9). The Scriptures and the signs in the sky are in perfect harmony!

Draco- The Great Dragon Cast Out
The staging of the Dragon, called Draco, concludes the first act in the prophetic drama. Each of the three acts ends with a similar theme. Act One ends with the dragon being
66	God's Voice in the Stars

cast out. Act Two ends with Cetus, the sea monster, bound. Act Three concludes with Hydra, the old serpent, destroyed.
Draco is a long, winding constellation made up of stars that are not very conspicuous. Its two brightest stars, in its head, are not far from Vega, while the other stars form a winding line almost to the polestar. Four thousand seven hundred years ago one of its stars, Thuban, was in fact the polar star. Since then the effects of precession have carried the pole almost to Polaris, while Thuban has diminished in brightness by almost half. However, even though the importance of Draco to navigators has lessened, its importance to the student of prophetic symbols in the heavens is still clear.
Dragons are the terrible monsters of the ancient world. They are universally recognized, though most people believe them to be fictitious. It is interesting, however, that dragons pictured in legendary accounts are remarkably similar to the supposedly prehistoric reptiles (dinosaurs, etc.) displayed in museums. It would seem possible that such creatures did exist in the days prior to the flood. It may also be significant that dragons are referred to in both the Old and New Testaments. The word is used of literal creatures in Genesis 1:21 as part of the creation of God (the King James Version translates it whales). For the most part, however, the Bible uses the word dragon in its pictorial or allegorical sense. Isaiah speaks of the song that shall be sung in the coming day of judgment: "In that day the LORD with His . . . great and strong sword shall punish leviathan the swift serpent .. . and He shall slay the dragon that is in the sea" (Isaiah 27:1).
This is the truth that is presented to us in Draco. The evil one of whom Draco speaks is defeated and cast out.
The Conqueror (Sagittarius)	67

The name Draco means Trodden On in Greek and is used in this connection in the Septuagint of Psalm 91:13: "The dragon shalt thou trample under feet." The Hebrew word is Darach, meaning To Tread. The head of Draco is under the foot of Hercules and is yet another pictorial reminder of the first Messianic promise in the Bible, in Genesis 3:15. In this prophetic passage Satan's head is to be crushed by the coming Seed of the woman, who Himself was to be hurt in the foot. The stars in the head of Draco are Rastaban, which means The Head of the Subtle, and Ethanin, The Long Serpent. The former polestar, Thuban, means The Subtle, while the picture is consistent with the Arabic name for Rastaban, which is Al Waid (Who Is to Be Destroyed). Two unidentified stars are Giansar, The Punished Enemy, and El Atik, The Fraudulent. Thus the dragon is clearly identified with the subtle serpent, who is the original tempter and enemy of God. As the dragon is pictured being cast down, so Satan will be cast out of Heaven: "And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, called the Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world: he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, Now is come salvation, and strength, and the kingdom of our God, and the power of His Christ: for the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which accused them before our God day and night" (Revelation 12:9-10).
The Sign of Sagittarius

1. Sagittarius	The Archer with a Drawn Bow The Victorious Redeemer
2. Lyra	The Harp or Lyre
Praise for the Victorious Redeemer
68	God's Voice in the Stars

3. Ara	The Altar or Burning Pyre
Judgment Prepared for the Devil and His Angels
4. Draco	The Dragon Cast Down
Satan Cast Down in Defeat
8
THE SACRIFICE
Capricornus: Life Out of Death
The second act in the great show of the universe opens with a very unlikely actor on the stage. It is a goat with the tail of a fish, in the same fashion as a mermaid is supposed to be. This act, like the first, has four scenes, each centered around one of the signs of the zodiac. In the first act the signs of Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, and Sagittarius portrayed four aspects of prophetic truth concerning the Person and work of the coming Redeemer: the manhood He would assume, the price He would pay, the battle He would fight, and the victory He would win. Now in this second act attention is drawn to four more signs: Capricornus, Aquarius, Pisces, and Aries. These signs, together with their constellations, explain not so much the Person of the Redeemer but the results of His redeeming work, particularly in relation to the people who are redeemed.
Capricornus is a large constellation but has no bright stars and is not as easy to recognize as some other constellations. It can be found about halfway between two bright autumn stars, Altair and Formalhaut, using an ordinary star map and noting in particular the double star Al Gedi. However, do not be put off by the dullness of the stars in Capricornus, for the message they proclaim is
71
